[
  "*Truth is a new word in Europe (and elsewhere).",
  "*Without mathematics, we are blind.",
  "*It is thus quite simply false that whereof one cannot speak (in the sense of there is nothing to say about it that specifies it and grants it separating properties), thereof one must be silent. It must on the contrary be named.",
  "*The cinema is a place of intrinsic indiscernibility between art and non-art.",
  "*It must be said that today, at the end of its semantic evolution, the word terrorist is an intrinsically propagandistic term. It has no neutral readability. It dispenses with all reasoned examination of political situations, of their causes and consequences.",
  "*If there exists one unique great imperial power which is always convinced that its most brutal interests coincide with the Good; if it is true that every year the USA spends more on their military budget than Russia, China, France, England and Germany put together; and if that Nation-State, devoted to military excess, has no public idol other than wealth, no allies other than servants, and no view of other peoples apart from an indifferent, commercial and cynical one; then the basic freedom of States, peoples and individuals consists in doing everything and thinking everything in order to escape, as much as possible, from the commandments, interventions and interference of that imperial power.",
  "*In my view, only those who have had the courage to work through Lacans anti-philosophy without faltering deserve to be called contemporary philosophers.",
  "*Art attests to what is inhuman in man.",
  "*I am surprised to see that today everything that does not amount to surrender pure and simple to generalized capitalism, let us call it thus, is considered to be archaic or old-fashioned, as though in a way there existed no other definition of what it means to be modern than, quite simply, to be at all times caught in the dominant forms of the moment.",
  "*Let us say in passing that since (philosophical) remedies are often worse than the malady, our age, in order to be cured of the Plato sickness, has swallowed such doses of a relativist, vaguely skeptical, lightly spiritualist and insipidly moralist medicine, that it is in the process of gently dying, in the small bed of its supposed democratic comfort.",
  "*1. We are the contemporaries of a  third epoch of science after the Greek and Galilean. The caesura which opens this third epoch is not (a with the Greek) an invention - that of demonstrative mathematics - nor is it (like the Galilean) a break - that which mathematized the discourse of physics. It is a split, through, which the very nature of the base of mathematical rationality reveals itself, as does the character of the dision of thought which establishes it. ",
  "*2. We are equally the contemporaries of a  second epoch of the doctrine of the Subject. It is no longer the founding subject, centered and reflexive, whose theme runs from Descartes to Hegel and which remains legible in Marx and Freud (in fact, in Husserl and Sartre). The contemporary Subject is void, cleaved, a s-substantial, and ir-reflexive. More over, one can only suppose its existence in the context of particular processes whose conditions are rigorous. ",
  "*3. Finally, we are contemporaries of a  new departure in the doctrine of truth, following the dissolution of its relation of organic concretion to knowledge. It is noticeable, after the fact, that to this day  veracity, as I call it, has reigned without quarter: however strange it may seem, it is quite appropriate to say that truth is a new word in Europe (and elsewhere). Moreover, this theme of truth crosses the paths of Heidegger (who was the first to subtract it from knowledge), the mathematicians (who broke with the object at the end of the last century, just as they broke with adequation), and the modern theories of the subject (which displace truth from its subject pronunciation). ",
  "*The initial thesis of my enterprise - on the basis of which this entanglement of periodizations is organized by extracting the sense of each - is this following: the science of being qua being  has existed since the Greeks - such is the sense and status of mathematics. However, it is only today that we have the means to  know this. It follows from this thesis that philosophy is not centered on on ontology - which exists as a separate and exact discipline- rather it  circulates between this ontology (this, mathematics), the modern theories of he subject and its own history. The contemporary complex of the conditions of philosophy includes everything referred to in my first three statements: the history of Westernthought, post-Cantorian mathematics, psychoanalysis, contemporary art and politics. Philosophy does not coincide with any of these conditions; nor does it map out the totality to which they belong. What philosophy must do is purpose a conceptual framework in which the contemporary compossibilty of these conditions can be grasped. Philosophy can only do this - and this is what frees it from any foundational ambition, in which it would lose itself- by designating amongst its own conditions, as a singular discursive situation, ontology itself in the form of pure mathematics. This is precisely what delivers philosophy and ordains it to the care of truths. ",
  "*I then arrived at the certainty that it was necessary to posit that mathematics writes that which, of being itself, is pronounceable in the field of a pure theory of the Multiple. The entire history of rational thought appeared to me to be illuminated once one assumed the hypothesis that mathematics, far from being a game without object, draws the exceptional severity of its law from being bound to support the discourse of ontology. ",
  "*If the establishment of the thesis mathematics is ontology is the basis of this book, it is in no way its goal.",
  "*This book founds a doctrine which is effectively post-Cartesian, or even post-Lacanian, a doctrine of what, for thought, both un-binds the Heidegerean connection between being and truth and institutes the subject, not as support or origin, but as fragment of the process of a truth. ",
  "*If one category had to be designated as an emblem of my thought, it would be neither Cantors pure multiple, nor Godels constructible, nor the void, by which being is named, nor even the event, in which the supplement of what-is-not-being-qua-being originates. It would be the generic. ",
  "*Since its Parmenidean organization, ontology has built the portico of its ruined temple out of the following experience: what  presents itself is essentially multiple;  what presents itself is essentially one. The reciprocity of the one and being is certainly the inaugural axiom of philosophy - Leibniz formulation is excellent; What is not  a being is not a being - yet it is also its impasse; an impasse in which the revolving doors of Platos Parmenides introduce us to the singular joy of never seeing the moment of conclusion arrive. For if being is one, then one must posit that what is not one, the multiple,  is not . But this is unacceptable for thought because what is presented is multiple and one cannot see how there could be an access to being outside all presentation. If presentation is not, does it still make sense to designate what presents (itself) as being? On the other hand, if presentation is, then the multiple necessarily is.",
  "*We find ourselves on the brink of a decision, a decision to break with the arcana of the one and the multiple in which philosophy is born and buried, phoenix of its own sophistic consumption. ",
  "*Everything turns on mastering the gap between the presupposition (that must be rejected) of a being of the one and the thesis of its there is. ",
  "*According to the way it is generally used today, the term ethics relates above all to the domain of human rights, the rights of man- or, by derivation, the rights of living beings. We are supposed to assume the existence of a universally recognizable human subject possessing rights that are in some sense natural: the right to live, to avoid abusive, to enjoy fundamental liberties (of opinion, of expression, of democratic choice in the election of governments, etc.) These rights are help to be self-evident, and the result of a wide consensus. Ethics is a matter of busying ourselves with these rights, of making sure that they are respected. ",
  "*In the political domain, deprived of any collective politcal landmark, stripped of any notion of the meaning of History; and no longer able to hope for or expect a social revolution, many intellectuals, along with much of public opinion, have been won over to the logic of a capitalist economy and a parliamentary democracy. ",
  "*The heart of the question concerns the presumption of a univerasl human Subject, capable of reducing ethical issues to matters of human rights and humanitarian actions. We have seen that ethics subordniates the identification fo this subject to the universal recognition of the evil that is done to him. Ethics defines man  as a victim. It will be objected: No! You are forgetting the active subject, the one that intervenes against barbarism!So let us be precise: man is  the being who is capable of recognzing himself as a victim.",
  "*Badiou is, by any criteria, one of the most significant and original philosophers working in France today and perhaps the only serious rival of Deleuze and Derrida for that meaningless but unavoidable title of most important contemporary French philosopher. "
]