[
  "* Accordingly, death is a harbor of peace for the just, but is believed a shipwreck for the wicked.",
  "* It is not death therefore that is burdensome, but the fear of death.",
  "* It was not by dialectic that it pleased God to save His people.",
  "* Christ has taken obedience upon Himself, obedience even to taking on Him our flesh, the cross even to gaining our salvation. Thus where the work lies, there too is the Author of the work. When therefore, all things have become subject to Christ, through Christs obedience, so that all bend their knees in His name, then He Himself will be all in all. For now, since all do not believe, all do not seem to be in subjection. But when all have believed and done the will of God, then Christ will be all and in all. And when Christ is all and in all, then will God be all and in all (1 Cor 15:28); for the Father abides ever in the Son.",
  "* When I am here I do not fast on Saturday; but when I am at Rome I do: whatever church you may come to, conform to its custom, if you would avoid either receiving or giving offense.",
  "** If you are at Rome, live in the Roman style; if you are elsewhere, live as they live there.",
  "* Neither angel, nor archangel, nor yet even the Lord Himself (who alone can say \"I am with you\"), can, when we have sinned, release us, unless we bring repentance with us.",
  "**Formerly a lamb was offered, a calf was offered. Christ is offered today...and he offers himself as priest in order that he may remit our sins: here in image, there in truth where, as our advocate, he intercedes for us before the Father.",
  "**And what else did John have in mind but what is virtuous, so that he could not endure a wicked union even in the kings case, saying: \"It is not lawful for thee to have her to wife.\" He could have been silent, had he not thought it unseemly for himself not to speak the truth for fear of death, or to make the prophetic office yield to the king, or to indulge in flattery. He knew well that he would die as he was against the king, but he preferred virtue to safety. Yet what is more expedient than the suffering which brought glory to the saint.",
  "** But it is not only of the space in the Church which we ought to be jealous, but also of the interiors of the house of God in us, so that it might not become a house of merchandise, or a den of robbers.",
  "* How far, O rich, do you extend your senseless avarice? Do you intend to be the sole inhabitants of the earth? Why do you drive out the fellow sharers of nature, and claim it all for yourselves? The earth was made for all, rich and poor, in common. Why do you rich claim it as your exclusive right? The soil was given to the rich and poor in common\u2014wherefore, oh, ye rich, do you unjustly claim it for yourselves alone? Nature gave all things in common for the use of all; usurpation created private rights. Property hath no rights. The earth is the Lords, and we are his offspring. The pagans hold earth as property. They do blaspheme God."
]