[
  "*This case, involving legal requirements for the content and labeling of meat products such as frankfurters, affords a rare opportunity to explore simultaneously both parts of Bismarcks aphorism that No man should see how laws or sausages are made.",
  "*I define speech as any communicative activity. [Can it be nonverbal?] Yes. [Can it be nonverbal and also not written?] Yes. [Can it encompass physical actions?] Yes. Watt [Community for Creative Non-Violence v. Watt, 703 F.2d 586 (1983)] was a case in which what was at issue was sleeping as communicative activity. What I said was that for purposes of the heightened protections that are accorded, sleeping could not be speech. That is to say, I did not say that one could prohibit sleeping merely for the purpose of eliminating the communicative aspect of sleeping, if there is any . . . [and] I did not say that the Government could seek to prohibit that communication without running afoul of the heightened standards of the first amendment. If they passed a law that allows all other sleeping but only prohibits sleeping where it is intended to communicate, then it would be invalidated. But what I did say was, where you have a general law that just applies to an activity which in itself is normally not communicative, such as sleeping, spitting, whatever you like; clenching your fist, for example; such a law would not be subject to the heightened standards of the first amendment. That is to say, if there is ordinary justification for it, it is fine. It does not have to meet the high need, the no other available alternative requirements of the first amendment. Whereas, when you are dealing with communicative activity, naturally communicative activity\u2014writing, speech, and so forth\u2014 any law, even if it is general, across the board, has to meet those higher standards.",
  "*In law school, I never understood [antitrust law]. I later found out, in reading the writings of those who now do understand it, that I should not have understood it because it did not make any sense then.",
  "*Frequently an issue of this sort will come before the Court clad, so to speak, in sheeps clothing: the potential of the asserted principle to effect important change in the equilibrium of power is not immediately evident, and must be discerned by a careful and perceptive analysis. But this wolf comes as a wolf.",
  "*Evidently, the governing standard is to be what might be called the unfettered wisdom of a majority of this Court, revealed to an obedient people on a case-by-case basis.",
  "*How frightening it must be to have your own independent counsel and staff appointed, with nothing else to do but to investigate you until investigation is no longer worthwhile.",
  "*Those who believe that racial preferences can help to even the score display, and reinforce, a manner of thinking about race that was the source of the injustice and that will, if it endures within our society, be the source of more injustice still.",
  "*Justice Whites conclusion is perhaps correct, if one assumes that the task of a court of law is to plumb the intent of the particular Congress that enacted a particular provision. That methodology is not mine nor, I think, the one that courts have traditionally followed. It is our task, as I see it, not to enter the minds of the Members of Congress - who need have nothing in mind in order for their votes to be both lawful and effective - but rather to give fair and reasonable meaning to the text of the United States Code, adopted by various Congresses at various times.",
  "*We reject the dissents contention that our approach, by \"largely return[ing] the task of defining the contours of Eighth Amendment protection to political majorities,\" leaves \"\u2018[c]onstitutional doctrine [to] be formulated by the acts of those institutions which the Constitution is supposed to limit,\" [...] By reaching a decision supported neither by constitutional text nor by the demonstrable current standards of our citizens, the dissent displays a failure to appreciate that \"those institutions which the Constitution is supposed to limit\" include the Court itself. To say, as the dissent says, that \"\u2018it is for us ultimately to judge whether the Eighth Amendment permits imposition of the death penalty,\" (quoting Enmund v. Florida) -- and to mean that as the dissent means it, i.e., that it is for us to judge, not on the basis of what we perceive the Eighth Amendment originally prohibited, or on the basis of what we perceive the society through its democratic processes now overwhelmingly disapproves, but on the basis of what we think \"proportionate\" and \"measurably contributory to acceptable goals of punishment\" -- to say and mean that, is to replace judges of the law with a committee of philosopher-kings.",
  "* The outcome of todays case will doubtless be heralded as a triumph of judicial statesmanship. It is not that, unless it is statesmanlike needlessly to prolong this Courts self-awarded sovereignty over a field where it has little proper business, since the answers to most of the cruel questions posed are political, and not juridical -- a sovereignty which therefore quite properly, but to the great damage of the Court, makes it the object of the sort of organized public pressure that political institutions in a democracy ought to receive. [\u2026] Ordinarily, speaking no more broadly than is absolutely required avoids throwing settled law into confusion; doing so today preserves a chaos that is evident to anyone who can read and count. Alone sufficient to justify a broad holding is the fact that our retaining control, through Roe, of what I believe to be, and many of our citizens recognize to be, a political issue, continuously distorts the public perception of the role of this Court. We can now look forward to at least another Term with carts full of mail from the public, and streets full of demonstrators, urging us -- their unelected and life-tenured judges who have been awarded those extraordinary, undemocratic characteristics precisely in order that we might follow the law despite the popular will -- to follow the popular will. Indeed, I expect we can look forward to even more of that than before, given our indecisive decision today. [\u2026] It was an arguable question today whether [Section] 188.029 of the Missouri law contravened this Court\u2019s understanding of Roe v. Wade, and I would have examined Roe rather than examining the contravention. [\u2026] Of the four courses we might have chosen today -- to reaffirm Roe, to overrule it explicitly, to overrule it sub silentio, or to avoid the question -- the last is the least responsible. On the question of the constitutionality of [Section] 188.029, I concur in the judgment of the Court and strongly dissent from the manner in which it has been reached.",
  "* As I understand the various opinions today: One Justice holds that two-parent notification is unconstitutional (at least in present circumstances) without judicial bypass, but constitutional with bypass [\u2026]; four Justices would hold that two-parent notification is constitutional with or without bypass [\u2026]; four Justices would hold that two-parent notification is unconstitutional with or without bypass, though the four apply two different standards [\u2026]; six Justices hold that one-parent notification with bypass is constitutional, though for two different sets of reasons [\u2026]; and three Justices would hold that one-parent notification with bypass is unconstitutional [\u2026]. One will search in vain the document we are supposed to be construing for text that provides the basis for the argument over these distinctions and will find in our society\u2019s tradition regarding abortion no hint that the distinctions are constitutionally relevant, much less any indication how a constitutional argument about them ought to be resolved. The random and unpredictable results of our consequently unchanneled individual views make it increasingly evident, Term after Term, that the tools for this job are not to be found in the lawyer\u2019s \u2013 and hence not in the judges \u2013 workbox. I continue to dissent from this enterprise of devising an Abortion Code, and from the illusion that we have authority to do so.",
  "*The Constitution contains no right to abortion. It is not to be found in the longstanding traditions of our society, nor can it be logically deduced from the text of the Constitution - not, that is, without volunteering a judicial answer to the nonjusticiable question of when human life begins. Leaving this matter to the political process is not only legally correct, it is pragmatically so. That alone - and not lawyerly dissection of federal judicial precedents - can produce compromises satisfying a sufficient mass of the electorate that this deeply felt issue will cease distorting the remainder of our democratic process. The Court should end its disruptive intrusion into this field as soon as possible.",
  "*The point at which life becomes worthless, and the point at which the means necessary to preserve it become extraordinary or inappropriate, are neither set forth in the Constitution nor known to the nine Justices of this Court any better than they are known to nine people picked at random from the Kansas City telephone directory...[therefore] even when it is demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence that a patient no longer wishes certain measures to be taken to preserve her life, it is up to the citizens of Missouri to decide, through their elected representatives, whether that wish will be honored.",
  "*I am persuaded, therefore, that the Maryland procedure is virtually constitutional. Since it is not, however, actually constitutional, I would affirm the judgment of the Maryland Court of Appeals reversing the judgment of conviction.",
  "*Todays extension of the Edwards prohibition is the latest stage of prophylaxis built upon prophylaxis, producing a veritable fairyland castle of imagined constitutional restriction upon law enforcement.",
  "*The story is told of the elderly judge who, looking back over a long career, observes with satisfaction that, when I was young, I probably let stand some convictions that should have been overturned, and when I was old I probably set aside some that should have stood; so overall, justice was done. I sometimes think that is an appropriate analogy to this Courts constitutional jurisprudence, which alternately creates rights that the Constitution does not contain and denies rights that it does. Compare Roe v. Wade, [http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/cgi-bin/getcase.pl?navby=case&court=us&vol=410&invol=113 410 U.S. 113] (1973) (right to abortion does exist) with Maryland v. Craig, [http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/cgi-bin/getcase.pl?navby=case&court=us&vol=497&invol=836 497 U.S. 836] (1990) (right to be confronted with witnesses, U.S. Const., Amdt. 6, does not).",
  "*Perhaps the dissenters believe that offense to others ought to be the only reason for restricting nudity in public places generally. . . . The purpose of Indianas nudity law would be violated, I think, if 60,000 fully consenting adults crowded into the Hoosierdome to display their genitals to one another, even if there were not an offended innocent in the crowd.",
  "*for want of a nail, a kingdom was lost\" is a commentary on fate, not the statement of a major cause of action against a blacksmith.",
  "*I think [that] [t]he judicial Power of the United States conferred upon this Court and such inferior courts as Congress may establish, must be deemed to be the judicial power as understood by our common-law tradition. That is the power to say what the law is, Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803), not the power to change it.",
  "*The Courts statement that it is tempting to acknowledge the authoritativeness of tradition in order to curb the discretion of federal judges is, of course, rhetoric rather than reality; no government official is tempted to place restraints upon his own freedom of action, which is why Lord Acton did not say Power tends to purify. The Courts temptation is in the quite opposite and more natural direction -- towards systematically eliminating checks upon its own power; and it succumbs.",
  "*In Barnette, we held that a public school student could not be compelled to recite the Pledge; we did not even hint that she could not be compelled to observe respectful silence. . . . Logically, that ought to be the next target for the Courts bulldozer.",
  "*I find it a sufficient embarrassment that our Establishment Clause jurisprudence regarding holiday displays has come to require[e] scrutiny more commonly associated with interior decorators than with the judiciary. But interior decorating is a rock hard science compared to psychology practiced by amateurs.",
  "*The Courts reliance upon stare decisis can best be described as contrived. It insists upon the necessity of adhering not to all of Roe, but only to what it calls the central holding. It seems to me that stare decisis ought to be applied even to the doctrine of stare decisis, and I confess never to have heard of this new, keep-what-you-want-and-throw-away-the-rest version.",
  "*I frankly doubt, moreover, whether the fiercely proud men who adopted our Fourth Amendment would have allowed themselves to be subjected, on mere suspicion of being armed and dangerous, to such indignity.",
  "*As to the Courts invocation of the Lemon test: Like some ghoul in a late-night horror movie that repeatedly sits up in its grave and shuffles abroad, after being repeatedly killed and buried, Lemon stalks our Establishment Clause jurisprudence once again, frightening the little children and school attorneys of Center Moriches Union Free School District.  Its most recent burial, only last Term, was, to be sure, not fully six feet under: Our decision in Lee v. Weisman conspicuously avoided using the supposed test but also declined the invitation to repudiate it. Over the years, however, no fewer than five of the currently sitting Justices have, in their own opinions, personally driven pencils through the creatures heart (the author of todays opinion repeatedly), and a sixth has joined an opinion doing so. The secret of the Lemon tests survival, I think, is that it is so easy to kill. It is there to scare us (and our audience) when we wish it to do so, but we can command it to return to the tomb at will.  Such a docile and useful monster is worth keeping around, at least in a somnolent state; one never knows when one might need him.",
  "* Abusive (or hostile, which in this context I take to mean the same thing) does not seem to me a very clear standard - and I do not think clarity is at all increased by adding the adverb objectively or by appealing to a reasonable persons notion of what the vague word means.",
  "*Justice Blackmun begins his statement [declaring Blackmuns opposition to capital punishment] by describing with poignancy the death of a convicted murderer by lethal injection. He chooses, as the case in which to make that statement, one of the less brutal of the murders that regularly come before us, the murder of a man ripped by a bullet suddenly and unexpectedly, with no opportunity to prepare himself and his affairs, and left to bleed to death on the floor of a tavern. The death-by-injection which Justice Blackmun describes looks pretty desirable next to that. It looks even better next to some of the other cases currently before us, which Justice Blackmun did not select as the vehicle for his announcement that the death penalty is always unconstitutional, for example, the case of the 11-year-old girl raped by four men and then killed by stuffing her panties down her throat. See McCollum v. North Carolina. How enviable a quiet death by lethal injection compared with that!",
  "*I have been willing, in the case of civil statutes, to acknowledge a doctrine of scriveners error that permits a court to give an unusual (though not unheard of) meaning to a word which, if given its normal meaning, would produce an absurd and arguably unconstitutional result.",
  "*The Court today finds that the Powers That Be, up in Albany, have conspired to effect an establishment of the Satmar Hasidim. I do not know who would be more surprised at this discovery: the Founders of our Nation or Grand Rebbe Joel Teitelbaum, founder of the Satmar. The Grand Rebbe would be astounded to learn that after escaping brutal persecution and coming to America with the modest hope of religious toleration for their ascetic form of Judaism, the Satmar had become so powerful, so closely allied with Mammon, as to have become an establishment of the Empire State. And the Founding Fathers would be astonished to find that the Establishment Clause \u2014 which they designed to insure that no one powerful sect or combination of sects could use political or governmental power to punish dissenters \u2014 has been employed to prohibit characteristically and admirably American accommodation of the religious practices (or more precisely, cultural peculiarities) of a tiny minority sect. I, however, am not surprised. Once this Court has abandoned text and history as guides, nothing prevents it from calling religious toleration the establishment of religion.",
  "*Individuals who have been wronged by unlawful racial discrimination should be made whole; but under our Constitution there can be no such thing as either a creditor or a debtor race. That concept is alien to the Constitutions focus upon the individual . . . . To pursue the concept of racial entitlement - even for the most admirable and benign of purposes - is to reinforce and preserve for future mischief the way of thinking that produced race slavery, race privilege and race hatred. In the eyes of government, we are just one race here. It is American.",
  "*Words do have a limited range of meaning, and no interpretation that goes beyond that range is permissible.",
  "*It is one of the unhappy incidents of the federal system that a self-righteous Supreme Court, acting on its Members personal view of what would make a more perfect Union (a criterion only slightly more restrictive than a more perfect world) can impose its own favored social and economic dispositions nationwide.",
  "*It is hard to consider women a discrete and insular minority, unable to employ the political processes ordinarily to be relied upon when they constitute a majority of the electorate. And the suggestion that they are incapable of exerting that political power smacks of the same paternalism that the Court so roundly condemns.",
  "*The tradition of having government-funded military schools for men is as well rooted in the traditions of this country as the tradition of sending only men into military combat. The people may decide to change the one tradition, like the other, through democratic processes; but the assertion that either tradition has been unconstitutional through the centuries is not law, but politics-smuggled-into-law.",
  "* What secret knowledge, one must wonder, is breathed into lawyers when they become Justices of this Court, that enables them to discern that a practice which the text of the Constitution does not clearly proscribe, and which our people have regarded as constitutional for 200 years, is in fact unconstitutional? [\u2026] The Court must be living in another world. Day by day, case by case, it is busy designing a Constitution for a country I do not recognize.",
  "*I respectfully, and indeed diffidently, dissent.",
  "*Bork has essentially given up. Im not ready to throw in the towel.",
  "*Im not going to rip all that up. Its water over the dam. The people have gotten used to it. You know, thats what Stare Decisis is all about. In other words, I am an originalist. I am a textualist. I am not a nut.",
  "*Textualism should not be confused with so-called strict constructionism, which is a degraded form of textualism that brings the whole philosophy into disrepute. I am not a strict constructionist, and no one ought to be--though better that, I suppose, than a nontextualist. A text should not be construed strictly, and it should not be construed leniently; it should be construed reasonably, to contain all that it fairly means.",
  "*If to state this case is not to decide it, the law has departed further from the meaning of language than is appropriate for a government that is supposed to rule (and to be restrained) through the written word.",
  "*Avant-garde artistes such as respondents remain entirely free to pater les bourgeois [shock the middle classes]; they are merely deprived of the additional satisfaction of having the bourgeoisie taxed to pay for it. It is preposterous to equate the denial of taxpayer subsidy with measures aimed at the suppression of dangerous ideas.",
  "*The operation was a success, but the patient died. What such a procedure is to medicine, the Courts opinion in this case is to law.",
  "*Legislative flexibility on the part of Congress will be the touchstone of federalism when the capacity to support combustion becomes the acid test of a fire extinguisher. Congressional flexibility is desirable, of course - but only within the bounds of federal power established by the Constitution. Beyond those bounds (the theory of our Constitution goes), it is a menace.",
  "*In my view, a right of parents to direct the upbringing of their children is among the unalienable Rights with which the Declaration of Independence proclaims all Men . . . are endowed by their Creator.",
  "*What todays decision will stand for, whether the Justices can bring themselves to say it or not, is the power of the Supreme Court to write a prophylactic, extraconstitutional Constitution, binding on Congress and the States.",
  "*The notion that the Constitution of the United States, designed, among other things, to establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, . . . and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, prohibits the States from simply banning this visibly brutal means of eliminating our half-born posterity is quite simply absurd.",
  "*If one assumes, however, that the PGA TOUR has some legal obligation to play classic, Platonic golf\u2014and if one assumes the correctness of all the other wrong turns the Court has made to get to this point\u2014then we Justices must confront what is indeed an awesome responsibility. It has been rendered the solemn duty of the Supreme Court of the United States, laid upon it by Congress in pursuance of the Federal Governments power [t]o regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, U. S. Const., Art. I, \u00a7 8, cl. 3, to decide What Is Golf. I am sure that the Framers of the Constitution, aware of the 1457 edict of King James II of Scotland prohibiting golf because it interfered with the practice of archery, fully expected that sooner or later the paths of golf and government, the law and the links, would once again cross, and that the judges of this august Court would some day have to wrestle with that age-old jurisprudential question, for which their years of study in the law have so well prepared them: Is someone riding around a golf course from shot to shot really a golfer? The answer, we learn, is yes. The Court ultimately concludes, and it will henceforth be the Law of the Land, that walking is not a fundamental aspect of golf.",
  "* I am left to defend the dead Constitution.",
  "*My difficulty with Roe v. Wade is a legal rather than a moral one. I do not believe \u2013 and no one believed for 200 years \u2013 that the Constitution contains a right to abortion. And if a state were to permit abortion on demand, I would and could in good conscience vote against an attempt to invalidate that law, for the same reason that I vote against invalidation of laws that contradict Roe v. Wade; namely, simply because the Constitution gives the federal government and, hence, me no power over the matter.",
  "* Todays decision is the pinnacle of our Eighth Amendment death-is-different jurisprudence. Not only does it, like all of that jurisprudence, find no support in the text or history of the Eighth Amendment; it does not even have support in current social attitudes regarding the conditions that render an otherwise just death penalty inappropriate. Seldom has an opinion of this Court rested so obviously upon nothing but the personal views of its members.",
  "* Campaign promises are, by long democratic tradition, the least binding form of human commitment.",
  "* It seems to me that the more Christian a country is the less likely it is to regard the death penalty as immoral. Abolition has taken its firmest hold in post-Christian Europe, and has least support in the church-going United States. I attribute that to the fact that, for the believing Christian, death is no big deal. Intentionally killing an innocent person is a big deal: it is a grave sin, which causes one to lose his soul. But losing this life, in exchange for the next? The Christian attitude is reflected in the words Robert Bolt\u2019s play has Thomas More saying to the headsman: Friend, be not afraid of your office. You send me to God. For the nonbeliever, on the other hand, to deprive a man of his life is to end his existence.",
  "**Admitting fallibility:  Concurring in Ring v. Arizona [http://straylight.law.cornell.edu/supct/html/01-488.ZC.html 536 U.S. 584] (2002).",
  "*If you care passionately about something has become the only test to determine if something is constitutional. How passionately do you care?",
  "*People look at rights as if they were muscles \u2014 the more you exercise them, the better they get.",
  "*You could fire a grapefruit out of a cannon over the best law schools in the country - and that includes Chicago - and not hit an originalist.",
  "*We Americans have a method for making the laws that are over us. We elect representatives to two Houses of Congress, each of which must enact the new law and present it for the approval of a President, whom we also elect. For over two decades now, unelected federal judges have been usurping this lawmaking power by converting what they regard as norms of international law into American law. Todays opinion approves that process in principle, though urging the lower courts to be more restrained. This Court seems incapable of admitting that some matters - any matters - are none of its business.",
  "*Many think it not only inevitable but entirely proper that liberty give way to security in times of national crisis--that, at the extremes of military exigency, inter arma silent leges. Whatever the general merits of the view that war silences law or modulates its voice, that view has no place in the interpretation and application of a Constitution designed precisely to confront war and, in a manner that accords with democratic principles, to accommodate it.",
  "*Robert F. Kennedy used to say, Some men see things as they are and ask why. Others dream things that never were and ask why not?; that outlook has become a far too common and destructive approach to interpreting the law",
  "*Dispensing with confrontation because testimony is obviously reliable is akin to dispensing with jury trial because a defendant is obviously guilty.",
  "*Judges who find Constitutional rights the Framers never intended take important issues out of the public space of democratic debate and suspend them in a sort of legal formaldehyde.",
  "*Have the courage to have your wisdom regarded as stupidity.",
  "*On the point of the Courts Roper decision: I watched one television commentary on the case in which the host had one person defending the opinion on the ground that people should not be subjected to capital punishment for crimes they commit when they are younger than eighteen, and the other person attacked the opinion on the ground that a jury should be able to decide that a person, despite the fact he was under eighteen, given the crime, given the person involved, should be subjected to capital punishment. And it struck me how irrelevant it was, how much the point had been missed. The question wasn\u2019t whether the call was right or wrong. The important question was who [i.e., the Courts or Congress] should make the call.",
  "*What a mockery todays opinion makes of Hamiltons expectation, announcing the Courts conclusion - that the meaning of our Constitution has changed over the past 15 years\u2014not, mind you, not that this Courts decision 15 years ago was wrong, but that the Constitution has changed. The Court reaches this implausible result by purporting to advert, not to the original meaning of the Eighth Amendment, but to the evolving standards of decency, of our national society. It then finds, on the flimsiest of grounds, that a national consensus which could not be perceived in our peoples laws barely 15 years ago now solidly exists.",
  "*The Court thus proclaims itself sole arbiter of our Nations moral standards\u2014and in the course of discharging that awesome responsibility purports to take guidance from the views of foreign courts and legislatures. Because I do not believe that the meaning of our Eighth Amendment, any more than the meaning of other provisions of our Constitution, should be determined by the subjective views of five Members of this Court and like-minded foreigners, I dissent. Words have no meaning if the views of less than 50 percent of death penalty States can constitute a national consensus. Our previous cases have required overwhelming opposition to a challenged practice, generally over a long period of time.",
  "*I think it is up to the judge to say what the Constitution provided, even if what it provided is not the best answer, even if you think it should be amended. If thats what it says, thats what it says.",
  "*Now the Senate is looking for moderate judges, mainstream judges. What in the world is a moderate interpretation of a constitutional text? Halfway between what it says and what wed like it to say?",
  "*If youre going to be a good and faithful judge, you have to resign yourself to the fact that youre not always going to like the conclusions you reach. If you like them all the time, youre probably doing something wrong.",
  "*The main business of a lawyer is to take the romance, the mystery, the irony, the ambiguity out of everything he touches.",
  "* I believe that our people\u2019s traditional belief in the right of trial by jury is in perilous decline. That decline is bound to be confirmed, and indeed accelerated, by the repeated spectacle of a man\u2019s going to his death because a judge found that an aggravating factor existed. We cannot preserve our veneration for the protection of the jury in criminal cases if we render ourselves callous to the need for that protection by regularly imposing the death penalty without it.",
  "*Among the questions considered nonjusticiable is the definition of an impeachable offense. Whatever Congress says is an impeachable offense is an impeachable offense.",
  "*On Global Warming, in response to Massachusetts Assistant Attorney General James Milkeys correction of Scalias reference to the stratosphere: Troposphere, whatever. I told you before Im not a scientist. Thats why I dont want to have to deal with global warming, to tell you the truth.",
  "*I think too many promising young minds are wasted on it.",
  "*Jack Bauer saved Los Angeles. He saved hundreds of thousands of lives, are you going to convict Jack Bauer? Say that criminal law is against him? You have the right to a jury trial? Is any jury going to convict Jack Bauer? I dont think so.\" ",
  "*I dont think its a living document, I think its dead. More precisely, I think its enduring. It doesnt change. I think that needs to be orthodoxy.",
  "* As Justice Stevens explains, \u201c \u2018objective evidence, though of great importance, [does] not wholly determine the controversy, for the Constitution contemplates that in the end our own judgment will be brought to bear on the question of the acceptability of the death penalty under the Eighth Amendment.\u2019 \u201d (quoting Atkins v. Virginia). \u201cI have relied on my own experience in reaching the conclusion that the imposition of the death penalty\u201d Purer expression cannot be found of the principle of rule by judicial fiat. In the face of Justice Stevens\u2019 experience, the experience of all others is, it appears, of little consequence. The experience of the state legislatures and the Congress\u2014who retain the death penalty as a form of punishment\u2014is dismissed as \u201cthe product of habit and inattention rather than an acceptable deliberative process.\u201d The experience of social scientists whose studies indicate that the death penalty deters crime is relegated to a footnote. The experience of fellow citizens who support the death penalty is described, with only the most thinly veiled condemnation, as stemming from a \u201cthirst for vengeance.\u201d It is Justice Stevens\u2019 experience that reigns over all.",
  "* What if I am an aficionado of bullfights and I think, contrary to the animal cruelty people, that they ennoble both beast and man. I would not be able to market videos showing people how exciting a bullfight.",
  "* Antonin Scalia: Its erected as a war memorial. I assume it is erected in honor of all of the war dead. Its the \u2014 the cross is the \u2014 is the most common symbol of \u2014 of \u2014 of the resting place of the dead, and it doesnt seem to me \u2014 what would you have them erect? A cross \u2014 some conglomerate of a cross, a {{w|Star of David}}, and you know, a Moslem half moon and star?Peter Eliasberg: Well, Justice Scalia, if I may go to your first point. The cross is the most common symbol of the resting place of Christians. I have been in Jewish cemeteries. There is never a cross on a tombstone of a Jew. [Laughter.] So it is the most common symbol to honor Christians.Antonin Scalia: I dont think you can leap from that to the conclusion that the only war dead that that cross honors are the Christian war dead. I think thats an outrageous conclusion.",
  "* Certainly the Constitution does not require discrimination on the basis of sex. The only issue is whether it prohibits it. It doesnt. Nobody ever thought that thats what it meant. Nobody ever voted for that. If the current society wants to outlaw discrimination by sex, hey we have things called legislatures, and they enact things called laws. You dont need a constitution to keep things up-to-date. All you need is a legislature and a ballot box.",
  "* In the 1970s and 1980s vaccines became, one might say, victims of their own success. They had been so effective in preventing infectious diseases that the public became much less alarmed at the threat of those diseases, and much more concerned with the risk of injury from the vaccines themselves.",
  "* We are not talking here about a federal law prohibiting the States from regulating bubble-gum advertising, or even the construction of nuclear plants. We are talking about a federal law going to the core of state sovereignty: the power to exclude. [\u2026] The Court opinion\u2019s looming specter of inutterable horror\u2014\u2018[i]f [Section] 3 of the Arizona statute were valid, every State could give itself independent authority to prosecute federal registration violations\u2019\u2014seems to me not so horrible and even less looming. But there has come to pass, and is with us today, the specter that Arizona and the States that support it predicted: A Federal Government that does not want to enforce the immigration laws as written, and leaves the States\u2019 borders unprotected against immigrants whom those laws would exclude. So the issue is a stark one. Are the sovereign States at the mercy of the Federal Executive\u2019s refusal to enforce the Nation\u2019s immigration laws? [\u2026] Arizona bears the brunt of the country\u2019s illegal immigration problem. Its citizens feel themselves under siege by large numbers of illegal immigrants who invade their property, strain their social services, and even place their lives in jeopardy. Federal officials have been unable to remedy the problem, and indeed have recently shown that they are unwilling to do so. [\u2026] Arizona has moved to protect its sovereignty\u2014not in contradiction of federal law, but in complete compliance with it. The laws under challenge here do not extend or revise federal immigration restrictions, but merely enforce those restrictions more effectively.  If securing its territory in this fashion is not within the power of Arizona, we should cease referring to it as a sovereign State.",
  "*If I were king, I would not allow people to go about burning the American flag. However, we have a First Amendment which says that the right of free speech shall not be abridged. And it is addressed, in particular, to speech critical of the government.",
  "*The problem here, however, is suggested by the comment I made earlier, that the initial enactment of this legislation in a \u2014 in a time when the need for it was so much more abundantly clear was \u2014 in the Senate, there \u2014 it was double-digits against it. And that was only a 5-year term. Then, it is reenacted 5 years later, again for a 5-year term. Double-digits against it in the Senate. Then it was reenacted for 7 years. Single digits against it. Then enacted for 25 years, 8 Senate votes against it. And this last enactment, not a single vote in the Senate against it. And the House is pretty much the same. Now, I dont think thats attributable to the fact that it is so much clearer now that we need this. I think it is attributable, very likely attributable, to a phenomenon that is called perpetuation of racial {{w|entitlement}}.",
  "*Todays judgment will, to be sure, have the beneficial effect of solving more crimes; then again, so would the taking of DNA samples from anyone who flies on an airplane (surely the Transportation Security Administration needs to know the \u201cidentity\u201d of the flying public), applies for a drivers license, or attends a public school. Perhaps the construction of such a genetic panopticon is wise. But I doubt that the proud men who wrote the charter of our liberties would have been so eager to open their mouths for royal inspection.",
  "* I think the main fight is to dissuade Americans from what the secularists are trying to persuade them to be true: that the separation of church and state means that the government cannot favor religion over nonreligion... Thats a possible way to run a political system. The Europeans run it that way... And if the American people want to do it, I suppose they can enact that by statute. But to say thats what the Constitution requires is utterly absurd.",
  "*Youre looking at me as though Im weird. My god! Are you so out of touch with most of America, most of which believes in the devil? I mean, Jesus Christ believed in the devil! Its in the Gospels! You travel in circles that are so, so removed from mainstream America that you are appalled that anybody would believe in the devil! Most of mankind has believed in the devil, for all of history. Many more intelligent people than you or me have believed in the devil.",
  "* The Courts opinion serves up a freedom-destroying cocktail consisting of two parts patent falsity.",
  "* Humanity has been around for at least some 5,000 years or so, and I doubt that the basic challenges it has confronted are any worse now, or, alas, even much different, from what they ever were.",
  "* Perhaps the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will attain the enduring status of the Social Security Act or the Taft-Hartley Act; perhaps not. But this Court\u2019s two decisions on the Act will surely be remembered through the years. The somersaults of statutory interpretation they have performed (\u201cpenalty\u201d means tax, \u201cfurther [Medicaid] payments to the State\u201d means only incremental Medicaid payments to the State, \u201cestablished by the State\u201d means not established by the State) will be cited by litigants endlessly, to the confusion of honest jurisprudence. And the cases will publish forever the discouraging truth that the Supreme Court of the United States favors some laws over others, and is prepared to do whatever it takes to uphold and assist its favorites.",
  "* It is not of special importance to me what the law says about marriage. It is of overwhelming importance, however, who it is that rules me. Todays decree says that my Ruler, and the Ruler of 320 million Americans coast-to-coast, is a majority of the nine lawyers on the Supreme Court. The opinion in these cases is the furthest extension in fact\u2014and the furthest extension one can even imagine\u2014of the Courts claimed power to create \u201cliberties\u201d that the Constitution and its Amendments neglect to mention. This practice of constitutional revision by an unelected committee of nine, always accompanied (as it is today) by extravagant praise of liberty, robs the People of the most important liberty they asserted in the Declaration of Independence and won in the Revolution of 1776: the freedom to govern themselves.",
  "* A system of government that makes the People subordinate to a committee of nine unelected lawyers does not deserve to be called a democracy.",
  "* If, even as the price to be paid for a fifth vote, I ever joined an opinion for the Court that began: \u201cThe Constitution promises liberty to all within its reach, a liberty that includes certain specific rights that allow persons, within a lawful realm, to define and express their identity,\u201d I would hide my head in a bag. The Supreme Court of the United States has descended from the disciplined legal reasoning of John Marshall and Joseph Story to the mystical aphorisms of the fortune cookie.",
  "* To tell you the truth there is no place for that in our constitutional tradition. Where did that come from? To be sure, you cant favor one denomination over another but cant favor religion over non-religion?",
  "* God has been very good to us. That we won the revolution was extraordinary. The Battle of Midway was extraordinary. I think one of the reasons God has been good to us is that we have done him honor. Unlike the other countries of the world that do not even invoke his name we do him honor. In presidential addresses, in Thanksgiving proclamations and in many other ways.",
  "* Winning and losing, thats never been my objective. Its my hope that in the fullness of time, the majority of the court will is come to see things as I do.",
  "* The body of scientific evidence supporting creation science is as strong as that supporting evolution. In fact, it may be stronger.... The evidence for evolution is far less compelling than we have been led to believe. Evolution is not a scientific \"fact,\" since it cannot actually be observed in a laboratory. Rather, evolution is merely a scientific theory or \"guess.\"... It is a very bad guess at that. The scientific problems with evolution are so serious that it could accurately be termed a \"myth.\"",
  "* Mere factual innocence is no reason not to carry out a death sentence properly reached."
]