[
  "* There is no city that is truly one other than this city that we [anahnti] are involved in bringing forth.",
  "* [In the introduction to his Middle Commentary on Aristotles Topics, Averroes said] This art has three parts. The first part sets forth the speeches from which dialectical conversation is composed \u2014 i.e., its parts, and the parts of its parts on to its simplest components. This part is found in the first treatise on Aristotles book.The second part sets forth the topics from which syllogisms are drawn \u2014 syllogisms for affirming something or denying it with respect to every kind of problem occurring in this art. This is the next six treatises of Aristotles bookThe third part set forth how The third part sets forth how the questioner ought to question and the answerer answer. It also sets forth how many kinds of questions and answers there are. This is in the eighth treatise of Aristotles book.\"",
  "* Knowledge is the conformity of the object and the intellect.",
  "* The necessary connexion of movement and time is real and time is something the soul (dhihn) constructs in movement.",
  "* Philosophers do not claim that God does not know particulars; they rather claim that He does not know them the way humans do. God knows particulars as their Creator whereas humans know them as a privileged creations of God might know them.",
  "* The Law teaches that the universe was invented and created by God, and that it did not come into being by chance or by itself.",
  "* On the whole, a man who denies the existence of the effects arranged according to the causes in the question of arts, or whose wisdom cannot understand it, then he has no knowledge of the art of its Maker.",
  "* It is quite clear to you that all the people see that lower kinds of creation could have been made in a different way from that in which they really are, and as they see this lower degree in many things they think that they must have been made by chance.",
  "* If we admit the existence of the Mutakallimun do.",
  "* This is one of the most intricate problems of Hadith}}) about this problem you will find them contradictory; such also being the case with arguments of reason. The contradiction in the arguments of the first kind is found in the [[Quran and the Hadith.",
  "* The Asharites have expressed a very peculiar opinion, both with regard to reason and religion; about this problem they have explained it in a way in which religion has not, but have adopted quite an opposite method.",
  "* Come the Day of Judgment, some believe that the body will be different from our present body. This is only transient, that will be eternal. For this also there are religious arguments.",
  "* Praise be to God with all due praise, and a prayer for Muhammad His chosen servant and apostle. The purpose of this treatise is to examine, from the standpoint of the study of the Law, whether the study of philosophy and logic is allowed by the Law, or prohibited, or commanded either by way of recommendation or as obligatory.",
  "* If teleological study of the world is philosophy, and if the Law commands such a study, then the Law commands philosophy.",
  "* To master this instrument the religious thinker must make a preliminary study of logic, just as the lawyer must study legal reasoning. This is no more heretical in the one case than in the other. And logic must be learned from the ancient masters, regardless of the fact that they were not Muslims.",
  "* After logic we must proceed to philosophy proper. Here too we have to learn from our predecessors, just as in mathematics and law. Thus it is wrong to forbid the study of ancient philosophy. Harm from it is accidental, like harm from taking medicine, drinking water, or studying law.",
  "* The double meaning has been given to suit peoples diverse intelligence. The apparent contradictions are meant to stimulate the learned to deeper study.",
  "* The texts about the future life fall into, since demonstrative scholars do not agree whether to take them in their apparent meaning or interpret them allegorically. Either is permissible. But it is inexcusable to deny the fact of a future life altogether."
]