[
  "* I hope you will understand my hesitation in writing to one whom I admire as the greatest representative of a philosophy to which I want to dedicate my whole life.",
  "* That particular sense of sacred rapture men say they experience in contemplating nature- Ive never received it from nature, only from. Buildings, Skyscrapers. I would give the greatest sunset in the world for one sight of New Yorks skyline. The shapes and the thought that made them. The sky over New York and the will of man made visible. What other religion do we need? And then people tell me about pilgrimages to some dank pest-hole in a jungle where they go to do homage to a crumbling temple, to a leering stone monster with a pot belly, created by some leprous savage. Is it beauty and genius they want to see? Do they seek a sense of the sublime? Let them come to New York, stand on the shore of the Hudson, look and kneel. When I see the city from my window - no, I dont feel how small I am - but I feel that if a war came to threaten this, I would like to throw myself into space, over the city, and protect these buildings with my body.",
  "* An individualist is a man who says: \"Ill not run anyones life \u2013 nor let anyone run mine. I will not rule nor be ruled. I will not be a master nor a slave. I will not sacrifice myself to anyone \u2013 nor sacrifice anyone to myself.\"",
  "* \u201cFree competition enforced by law\u201d is a grotesque contradiction in terms.",
  "* I am not primarily an advocate of capitalism, but of egoism; and I am not primarily an advocate of egoism, but of reason. If one recognizes the supremacy of reason and applies it consistently, all the rest follows.",
  "* Objectivism is a philosophical movement; since politics is a branch of philosophy, Objectivism advocates certain political principles \u2014 specifically, those of laissez-faire capitalism \u2014 as the consequence and the ultimate practical application of its fundamental philosophical principles. It does not regard politics as a separate or primary goal, that is: as a goal that can be achieved without a wider ideological context. . . . Objectivists are not \"conservatives.\" We are radicals for capitalism; we are fighting for that philosophical base which capitalism did not have and without which it was doomed to perish.",
  "* There is no difference between communism and socialism, except in the means of achieving the same ultimate end: communism proposes to enslave men by force, socialism\u2014by vote. It is merely the difference between murder and suicide.",
  "* What is greatness? I will answer: it is the capacity to live by the three fundamental values of John Galt: reason, purpose, self-esteem.",
  "* Even if smog were a risk to human life, we must remember that life in nature, without technology, is wholesale death.",
  "* Above all, do not join the wrong ideological groups or movements, in order to \u201cdo something.\u201d By \u201cideological\u201d (in this context), I mean groups or movements proclaiming some vaguely generalized, undefined (and, usually, contradictory) political goals. (E.g., the Conservative Party, that subordinates reason to faith, and substitutes theocracy for capitalism; or the \u201clibertarian\u201d hippies, who subordinate reason to whims, and substitute anarchism for capitalism.) To join such groups means to reverse the philosophical hierarchy and to sell out fundamental principles for the sake of some superficial political action which is bound to fail. ",
  "* Now, I dont care to discuss the alleged complaints American Indians have against this country. I believe, with good reason, the most unsympathetic Hollywood portrayal of Indians and what they did to the white man. They had no right to a country merely because they were born here and then acted like savages. The white man did not conquer this country...",
  "* The Arabs are one of the least developed cultures. They are typically nomads. Their culture is primitive, and they resent Israel because its the sole beachhead of modern science and civilization on their continent. When you have civilized men fighting savages, you support the civilized men, no matter who they are.\"",
  "* The worst evil that you can do, psychologically, is to laugh at yourself. That means spitting in your own face.",
  "* The trouble with the world today is philosophical: only the right philosophy can save us. But this party plagiarizes some of my ideas, mixes them with the exact opposite\u2014with religionists, anarchists and every intellectual misfit and scum they can find\u2014and call themselves libertarians and run for office.",
  "* They (Native Americans) didnt have any rights to the land, and there was no reason for anyone to grant them rights which they had not conceived and were not using. What was it that they were fighting for, when they opposed white men on this continent? For their wish to continue a primitive existence, their right to keep part of the earth untouched, unused and not even as property, but just keep everybody out so that you will live practically like an animal, or a few caves above it. Any white person who brings the element of civilization has the right to take over this continent.",
  "* Do you know that my personal crusade in life (in the philosophical sense) is not merely to fight collectivism, nor to fight altruism? These are only consequences, effects, not causes. I am out after the real cause, the real root of evil on earth \u2014 the irrational.",
  "*If you mean whose side one should be on, Israel or the Arabs, I would certainly say Israel because its the advanced, technological, civilized country amidst a group of almost totally primitive savages who have not changed for years and who are racist and who resent Israel because its bringing industry, intelligence, and modern technology into their stagnation.",
  "*It took centuries of intellectual, philosophical development to achieve political freedom. It was a long struggle, stretching from Aristotle to John Locke to the Founding Fathers. The system they established was not based on unlimited majority but on its opposite: on individual rights, which were not to be alienated by majority vote or minority plotting. The individual was not left at the mercy of his neighbors or his leaders: the Constitutional system of checks and balances was scientifically devised to protect him from both. This was the great American achievement\u2014and if concern for the actual welfare of other nations were our present leaders motive, this is what we should have been teaching the world. Instead, we are deluding the ignorant and the semi-savage by telling them that no political knowledge is necessary\u2014that our system is only a matter of subjective preference\u2014that any prehistorical form of tribal tyranny, gang rule, and slaughter will do just as well, with our sanction and support. It is thus that we encourage the spectacle of Algerian workers marching through the streets [in the 1962 Civil War] and shouting the demand: \"Work, not blood!\"\u2014without knowing what great knowledge and virtue are required to achieve it. In the same way, in 1917, the Russian peasants were demanding: \"Land and Freedom!\" But Lenin and Stalin is what they got. In 1933, the Germans were demanding: \"Room to live!\" But what they got was Hitler. In 1793, the French were shouting: \"Liberty, Equality, Fraternity!\" What they got was Napoleon. In 1776, the Americans were proclaiming \"The Rights of Man\"\u2014and, led by political philosophers, they achieved it. No revolution, no matter how justified, and no movement, no matter how popular, has ever succeeded without a political philosophy to guide it, to set its direction and goal.",
  "* Let no man posture as an advocate of peace if he proposes or supports any social system that initiates the use of force against individual men, in any form.",
  "* Man\u2014every man\u2014is an end in himself, not a means to the ends of others; he must live for his own sake, neither sacrificing himself to others nor sacrificing others to himself; he must work for his rational self-interest, with the achievement of his own happiness as the highest moral purpose of his life.",
  "* Do you believe in God, Andrei? No. Neither do I. But thats a favorite question of mine. An upside-down question, you know. What do you mean? Well, if I asked people whether they believed in life, theyd never understand what I meant. Its a bad question. It can mean so much that it really means nothing. So I ask them if they believe in God. And if they say they do\u2014then, I know they dont believe in life. Why? Because, you see, God\u2014whatever anyone chooses to call God\u2014is ones highest conception of the highest possible. And whoever places his highest conception above his own possibility thinks very little of himself and his life. Its a rare gift, you know, to feel reverence for your own life and to want the best, the greatest, the highest possible, here, now, for your very own. To imagine a heaven and then not to dream of it, but to demand it.",
  "* There is no such thing as duty. If you know that a thing is right, you want to do it. If you dont want to do it\u2014it isnt right. If its right and you dont want to do it\u2014you dont know what right is and youre not a man.",
  "* There is only one thing that matters and that well remember. The rest doesnt matter. I dont care what life is to be nor what it does to us. But it wont break us. Neither you nor me. Thats our only weapon. Thats the only banner we can hold against all those others around us. Thats all we have to know about the future.",
  "* The highest thing in a man is not his god. Its that in him which knows the reverence due a god. You are my highest reverence.",
  "* A moment or an eternity\u2014did it matter? Life, undefeated, existed and could exist. She smiled, her last smile, to so much that had been possible.",
  "* I need no warrant for being, and no word of sanction upon my being. I am the warrant and the sanction.",
  "* And now I see the face of god, and I raise this god over the earth, this god whom men have sought since men came into being, this god who will grant them joy and peace and pride. This god, this one word: I.",
  "* Neither am I the means to any end others may wish to accomplish. I am not a tool for their use. I am not a servant of their needs. I am not a bandage for their wounds, I am not a sacrifice on their altars.",
  "* There is nothing to take a mans freedom away from him, save other men. To be free, a man must be free of his brothers.",
  "* This miracle of me is mine to own and keep, and mine to guard, and mine to use, and mine to kneel before...The fortune of my spirit is not to be blown into coins of brass and flung to the winds as alms for the poor of spirit.",
  "* I shall choose friends among men, but neither slaves nor masters. And I shall choose only such as please me, and them I shall love and respect, but neither command nor obey. And we shall join our hands when we wish, or walk alone when we so desire.",
  "*In the temple of his spirit, each man is alone.",
  "*It is not good to feel too much joy, nor to be glad that our body lives. For we matter not and it must not matter to us whether we live or die, which is to be as our brothers will it. But we, Equality 7-2521, are glad to be living. If this is a vice, then we wish no virtue.",
  "*No single one can possess greater wisdom than the many scholars who are elected by all the men for their wisdom. Yet we can. We do. We have fought against saying it, but now it is said. We do not care. We forget all men, all laws and all things save our metals and our wires. So much is still to be learned! So long a road lies before us, and what care we if we must travel it alone!",
  "* The spread of evil is the symptom of a vacuum. Whenever evil wins, it is only by default: by the moral failure of those who evade the fact that there can be no compromise on basic principles.",
  "*In a capitalist society, all human relationships are voluntary. Men are free to cooperate or not, to deal with one another or not, as their own individual judgments, convictions and interests dictate.",
  "*Statism is a system of institutionalized violence and perpetual civil war. It leaves men no choice but to fight to seize political power -- to rob or be robbed, to kill or be killed. ... Statism survives by looting; a free country survives by production.",
  "*Americas abundance was created not by public sacrifices to the common good, but by the productive genius of free men who pursued their own personal interests and the making of their own private fortunes. They did not starve the people to pay for Americas industrialization. They gave the people better jobs, higher wages, and cheaper goods with every new machine they invented, with every scientific discovery or technological advance- and thus the whole country was moving forward and profiting, not suffering, every step of the way.",
  "*Economic power is exercised by means of a positive, by offering men a reward, an incentive, a payment, a value; political power is exercised by means of a negative, by the threat of punishment, injury, imprisonment, destruction. The businessmans tool is values; the bureaucrats tool is fear.",
  "*A gun is not an argument.",
  "* So long as [men] hold the tribal notion that the individual is sacrificial fodder for the collective, that some men have the right to rule others by force, and that some (any) alleged good can justify It \u2014 there can be no peace \u2018within\u2019 a nation and no peace among nations.",
  "* When the common good of a society is regarded as something apart from and superior to the individual good of its members, it means that the good of some men takes precedence over the good of others, with those others consigned to the status of sacrificial animals.",
  "*An attempt to achieve the good by force is like an attempt to provide a man with a picture gallery at the price of cutting out his eyes.",
  "*Businessmen are the one group that distinguishes capitalism and the American way of life from the totalitarian statism that is swallowing the rest of the world. All the other social groups- workers, farmers, professional men, scientists, soldiers- exist under dictatorships, even though they exist in chains, in terror, in misery, and in progressive self-destruction. But there is no such group as businessmen under a dictatorship. Their place is taken by armed thugs: by bureaucrats and commissars. Businessmen are the symbol of a free society- the symbol of America.",
  "*Every government interference in the economy consists of giving an unearned benefit, extorted by force, to some men at the expense of others.",
  "*Every movement that seeks to enslave a country, every dictatorship or potential dictatorship, needs some minority group as a scapegoat which it can blame for the nations troubles and use as a justification of its own demands for dictatorial powers. In Soviet Russia, the scapegoat was the bourgeoisie; in Nazi Germany, it was the Jewish people; in America, it is the businessmen.",
  "*It is futile to fight against, if one does not know what one is fighting for.",
  "*Remember also that the smallest minority on earth is the individual. Those who deny individual rights, cannot claim to be defenders of minorities.",
  "*Capitalism has created the highest standard of living ever known on earth. The evidence is incontrovertible. The contrast between West and East Berlin is the latest demonstration, like a laboratory experiment for all to see. Yet those who are loudest in proclaiming their desire to eliminate poverty are loudest in denouncing capitalism. Mans well-being is not their goal.",
  "*Let anyone who believes that a high standard of living is the achievement of labor unions and government controls ask himself the following question: If one had a \"time machine\" and transported the united labor chieftains of America, plus three million government bureaucrats, back to the tenth century\u2014would they be able to provide the medieval serf with electric light, refrigerators, automobiles, and television sets?",
  "* It took centuries of intellectual, philosophical development to achieve political Founding Fathers. The system they established was not based on unlimited majority rule, but on its opposite: on individual rights, which were not to be alienated by majority vote or minority plotting. The individual was not left at the mercy of his neighbors or his leaders: the Constitutional system of checks and balances was scientifically devised to protect him from both. This was the great American achievement\u2014and if concern for the actual welfare of other nations were our present leaders motive, this is what we should have been teaching the world.",
  "*Man is the only living species that has the power to act as his own destroyer\u2014and that is the way he has acted through most of his history.",
  "*The men who attempt to survive, not by means of reason, but by means of force, are attempting to survive by the method of animals.",
  "*Neither life nor happiness can be achieved by the pursuit of irrational whims. Just as man is free to attempt to survive by any random means, as a parasite, a moocher or a looter, but not free to succeed at it beyond the range of the moment\u2014so he is free to seek his happiness in any irrational fraud, any whim, any delusion, any mindless escape from reality, but not free to succeed at it beyond the range of the moment nor to escape the consequences.",
  "*The only proper, moral purpose of a government is to protect mans rights, which means: to protect him from physical violence\u2014to protect his right to his own life, to his own liberty, to his own property and to the pursuit of his own happiness. Without property rights, no other rights are possible.",
  "*When I say \u201ccapitalism,\u201d I mean a full, pure, uncontrolled, unregulated laissez-faire capitalism\u2014with a separation of state and economics, in the same way and for the same reasons as the separation of state and church.",
  "*Poverty, ignorance, illness and other problems of that kind are not metaphysical emergencies. By the metaphysical nature of man and of existence, man has to maintain his life by his own effort; the values he needs\u2014such as wealth or knowledge\u2014are not given to him automatically, as a gift of nature, but have to be discovered and achieved by his own thinking and work.",
  "*When one observes the nightmare of the desperate efforts made by hundreds of thousands of people struggling to escape from the socialized countries of Europe, to escape over barbed-wire fences, under machine-gun fire\u2014one can no longer believe that socialism, in any of its forms, is motivated by benevolence and by the desire to achieve mens welfare.",
  "*When you consider socialism, do not fool yourself about its nature. Remember that there is no such dichotomy as \u201chuman rights\u201d versus \u201cproperty rights.\u201d No human rights can exist without property rights.",
  "*Capitalism is the only system where such men are free to function and where progress is accompanied, not by forced privations, but by a constant rise in the general level of prosperity, of consumption and of enjoyment of life.",
  "* Observe, in politics, that the term extremism has become a synonym of \"evil,\" regardless of the content of the issue (the evil is not what you are extreme about, but that you are \"extreme\"\u2014i.e., consistent).",
  "*Since only an individual man can possess rights, the expression \u201cindividual rights\u201d is a redundancy (which one has to use for purposes of clarification in todays intellectual chaos). But the expression \u201ccollective rights\u201d is a contradiction in terms.",
  "*Mans rights can be violated only by the use of physical force. It is only by means of physical force that one man can deprive another of his life, or enslave him, or rob him, or prevent him from pursuing his own goals, or compel him to act against his own rational judgment.",
  "*Any group or \u201ccollective,\u201d large or small, is only a number of individuals. A group can have no rights other than the rights of its individual members.",
  "* When a man declares: \"There are no blacks and whites [in morality]\" he is making a psychological confession, and what he means is: \"I am unwilling to be wholly good\u2014and please dont regard me as wholly evil!\"",
  "* Errors of knowledge are not breaches of morality; no proper moral code can demand infallibility or omniscience.",
  "* Racism is the lowest, most crudely primitive form of collectivism. It is the notion of ascribing moral, social or political significance to a mans genetic lineage\u2014the notion that a mans intellectual and characterological traits are produced and transmitted by his internal body chemistry. Which means, in practice, that a man is to be judged, not by his own character and actions, but by the characters and actions of a collective of ancestors.",
  "* The skyline of New York is a monument of a splendor that no pyramids or palaces will ever equal or approach.",
  "* All the reasons which made the initiation of physical force evil, make the retaliatory use of physical force a moral imperative.",
  "* Individual rights are the means of subordinating society to moral law.",
  "* The moral precept to adopt...is: Judge, and be prepared to be judged.",
  "* Ask yourself why totalitarian dictatorships find it necessary to pour money and effort into propaganda for their own helpless, chained, gagged slaves, who have no means of protest or defense. The answer is that even the humblest peasant or the lowest savage would rise in blind rebellion, were he to realize that he is being immolated, not to some incomprehensible noble purpose, but to plain, naked human evil.",
  "*The moral cannibalism of all hedonist and altruist doctrines lies in the premise that the happiness of one man necessitates the injury of another.",
  "*Individual rights are not subject to a public vote; a majority has no right to vote away the rights of a minority; the political function of rights is precisely to protect minorities from oppression by majorities (and the smallest minority on earth is the individual).",
  "*Since there is no such entity as \u2018the public,\u2019 since the public is merely a number of individuals, any claimed or implied conflict of \u2018the public interest\u2019 with private interests means that the interests of some men are to be sacrificed to the interests and wishes of others. Since the concept is so conveniently undefinable, its use rests only on any given gangs ability to proclaim that \u2018The public, c\u2019est moi\u2019\u2014and to maintain the claim at the point of a gun.",
  "*One of the paradoxes of our age is the fact that the intellectuals, the politicians, and all the sundry voices that choke like asthma the throat of our communications media, have never gasped and stuttered so loudly about their devotion to the public good, and about the peoples will as the supreme criterion of value - and never have they been so grossly indifferent to the people. The reason, obviously, is that collectivist slogans serve as the rationalization for those who intend, not to follow the people, but to rule them.",
  "*The most profound breach in this country is not between the rich and the poor, but between the people and the intellectuals. In their view of life, the American people are predominantly Apollonian. The mainstream intellectuals are Dionysian. This means the people are reality-oriented, common sense-oriented, technology-oriented. The intellectuals call this \"materialistic,\" and \"middle-class.\" The intellectuals are emotion-oriented, and seek in panic an escape from a reality they are unable to deal with, and from a technological civilization that ignores their feelings.",
  "*And this is the whole shabby secret: to some men, the sight of an achievement is a reproach, a reminder that their own lives are irrational, and that there is no loophole - no escape from reason and reality. Their resentment is the cornered Dionysian element baring its teeth.",
  "* Some day, the world will discover that, without thought, there can be no love.",
  "* [The hippies] were told that love - indiscriminate love for ones fellow man - is the highest virtue, and they obeyed. They were told that the merging of ones self with a herd, tribe, or community is the noblest way for a man to live, and they obeyed. There isnt a philosophical idea of todays establishment which they have not accepted, which they do not share. When they discovered this philosophy did not work, because in fact it cannot work, the hippies had neither the wit nor the courage to challenge it. They found, instead, an outlet for their impotent frustration by accusing their elders of hypocrisy, as if hypocrisy were the only obstacle to the realization of their dreams. And, left blindly, helplessly lobotomized in the face of an inexplicable reality that is not amenable to their feelings, they have no recourse but the shouting of obscenities at anything that frustrates their whims; at man, or at the rainy sky, indiscriminately, with no concept of the difference. It is typical of todays culture that the proponents of seething, raging hostility are taken as advocates of love.",
  "*There is a kind of malicious wink, a contemptuous sneer in the public voices claiming the hippies as heroes. The hippies are a desperate herd looking for a master, to be taken over by anyone - anyone who would tell them how to live without demanding the effort of thinking. Theirs is the mentality ready for a fuhrer.",
  "*The hippies are the living demonstration of what it means to give up reason, and to rely on ones primeval instincts, urges, intuitions, and whims. With such tools, they are unable to grasp even what is needed to satisfy their wishes; for example, the wish to have a festival. Where would they be without the charity of the local \"squares\" who fed them? Where would they be without the fifty doctors rushed from New York to save their lives? Without the automobiles that brought them to the festival? Without the soda pop and beer they substituted for water? Without the helicopters that brought the entertainers? Without all the achievements of the technological civilization they denounce? Left to their own devices, they literally didnt know enough to come in out of the rain.",
  "*It is fear that drives [the hippies] to seek the warmth, the protection, the safety of a herd. When they speak of merging themselves into a \"greater whole,\" it is their fear that they hope to drown in the undemanding waves of unfastidious human bodies - and what they hope to fish out of that pool is the momentary illusion of an unearned personal significance.",
  "*Is there any doubt that drug addiction is an escape from an unbearable inner state - from a reality that one cannot deal with - from an atrophying mind one can never fully destroy? If Apollonian reason were unnatural to man, and Dionysian intuition brought him closer to nature and truth, the apostles of irrationality would not have to resort to drugs. Happy, self-confident men do not seek to get stoned. Drug addiction is the attempt to obliterate ones consciousness, the quest for a deliberately-induced insanity. As such, it is so obscene and evil that any doubt about the moral character of its practitioners is itself an obscenity.",
  "*You have all heard the old bromide to the effect that man has his eyes on the stars and his feet in the mud. It is usually taken to mean that mans reason and his physical senses are the element pulling him down to the mud while his mystical, super-rational emotions are the element that lifts him to the stars. This is the grimmest inversion of many in mankinds history. But, last summer, reality offered you a literal dramatization of the truth. It is mans irrational emotions that bring him down to the mud. It is mans reason that lifts him to the stars.",
  "*Art is a selective re-creation of reality according to an artists individual value-judgments.",
  "* Anyone who fights for the future, lives in it today.",
  "* An artist reveals his naked soul in his work - and so, gentle reader, do you when you respond to it.",
  "* Pity for the guilty is treason to the innocent.",
  "* Art is mans metaphysical mirror; what a rational man seeks to see in that mirror is a salute; what an irrational man seeks to see is a justification \u2013 even if only a justification of his depravity, as a last convulsion of his betrayed self-esteem.",
  "* Definitions are the guardians of rationality, the first line of defense against the chaos of mental disintegration.",
  "*An Asian peasant who labors through all of his waking hours, with tools created in Biblical times\u2014a South American aborigine who is devoured by piranha in a jungle stream\u2014an African who is bitten by the tsetse fly\u2014an Arab whose teeth are green with decay in his mouth\u2014these do live with their natural environment, but are scarcely able to appreciate its beauty. Try to tell a Chinese mother, whose child is dying of cholera: Should one do everything one can? Of course not. Try to tell a Russian housewife, who trudges miles on foot in sub-zero weather in order to spend hours standing in line at a state store dispensing food rations, that America is defiled by shopping centers, expressways and family cars.",
  "*By the same principle, the government may not give special leniency to the perpetrator of a crime, on the grounds of the nature of his ideas.",
  "*A crime is the violation of the right(s) of other men by force (or fraud). It is only the initiation of physical force against others- i.e., the recourse to violence- that can be classified as a crime in a free society (as distinguished from a civil wrong). Ideas, in a free society, are not a crime- and neither can they serve as the justification of a crime.",
  "*There is a level of cowardice lower than that of the conformist: the fashionable non-conformist.",
  "*Contrary to the ecologists, nature does not stand still and does not maintain the kind of equilibrium that guarantees the survival of any particular species - least of all the survival of her greatest and most fragile product: man.",
  "* Today, racism is regarded as a crime if practiced by a majority\u2014but as an inalienable right if practiced by a minority.",
  "* Thanksgiving is a typically American holiday... The lavish meal is a symbol of the fact that abundant consumption is the result and reward of production.",
  "*The right to vote is a consequence, not a primary cause, of a free social system\u2014and its value depends on the constitutional structure implementing and strictly delimiting the voters power; unlimited majority rule is an instance of the principle of tyranny.",
  "*Competition is a by-product of productive work, not its goal. A creative man is motivated by the desire to achieve, not by the desire to beat others.",
  "*Honor is self-esteem made visible in action.",
  "* There are only two means by which men can deal with one another: guns or logic. Force or persuasion. Those who know that they cannot win by means of logic, have always resorted to guns.",
  "* The secret dread of modern intellectuals, liberals and conservatives alike, the unadmitted terror at the root of their anxiety, which all of their current irrationalities are intended to stave off and to disguise, is the unstated knowledge that Soviet Russia is the full, actual, literal, consistent embodiment of the morality of altruism, that Stalin did not corrupt a noble ideal, that this is the only way altruism has to be or can ever be practiced.",
  "* The conservatives see man as a body freely roaming the earth, building sand piles or factories\u2014with an electronic computer inside his skull, controlled from Washington. The liberals see man as a soul freewheeling to the farthest reaches of the universe\u2014but wearing chains from nose to toes when he crosses the street to buy a loaf of bread.",
  "*A culture is made \u2014 or destroyed \u2014 by its articulate voices.",
  "*Aristotle may be regarded as the cultural barometer of Western history. Whenever his influence dominated the scene, it paved the way for one of historys brilliant eras; whenever it fell, so did mankind.",
  "*Every coercive monopoly was created by government intervention into the economy: by special privileges, such as franchises or subsidies, which closed the entry of competitors into a given field, by legislative action.",
  "*The purpose of my work: to introduce, or, rather, to re-introduce the original ways of human development. Once viewed as personal responsibility, personal growth, education, and social doctrine were highly effective. Now that they have begun to be approached as an \"acceptance,\" our ideals have begun to rely on the willingness of others to go along with our philosophies. It is now time for us to return to the selfish ideals of the past.",
  "*Never demand of another that which would constitute his sacrifice to you. Never grant that which would constitute your sacrifice to him.",
  "*Never initiate the use of force against another man. Never let his use of force against you remain unanswered by force.",
  "*The actions of all group leaders throughout history have had one common element: altruism - common good of the collective. Religious leaders and the \"moral\" majority condemn the likes of Hitler, Stalin, etc. but their movements and foundations are alike.",
  "*The human race has only two unlimited capacities: one for suffering and one for lying. I want to fight religion as the root of all human lying and the only excuse for human suffering.",
  "*All progress is the work of individuals.",
  "*Selfishness does not mean only to do things for ones self. One may do things, affecting others, for his own pleasure and benefit. This is not immoral, but the highest of morality.",
  "*The second handers offer substitutes for competence such as love, charm, kindness - easy substitutes - and there is no substitute for creation.",
  "*On second handers: [They are] always concerned with people - not facts, ideas, work or production. What would happen to the world without those who think, work, and produce?"
]