[
  "** Believe me, you will find more lessons in the woods than in books. Trees and stones will teach you what you cannot learn from masters.",
  "** To learn in order to know is scandalous curiosity. (Translation from Etienne Gilson, The Mystical Theology of St. Bernard)",
  "*Among us on the earth there is His memory; but in the Kingdom of heaven His very Presence. That Presence is the joy of those who have already attained to beatitude; the memory is the comfort of us who are still wayfarers, journeying towards the Fatherland.",
  "** I have freed my soul.",
  "* What of the souls already released from their bodies? We believe that they are overwhelmed in that vast sea of eternal light and of luminous eternity ",
  "* I would count him blessed and holy to whom such rapture has been vouchsafed in this mortal life, for even an instant to lose thyself,  as if thou wert emptied and lost and swallowed up in God, is no human love; it is celestial.  But if sometimes a poor mortal feels that heavenly joy for a rapturous moment, then this wretched life envies his happiness,  the malice of daily trifles disturbs him, this body of death weighs him down, the needs of the flesh are imperative,  the weakness of corruption fails him, and above all brotherly love calls him back to duty.  Alas! that voice summons him to re-enter his own round of existence; and he must ever cry out lamentably,  \u2018O Lord, I am oppressed: undertake for me\u2019 (Isa. 38.14); and again, \u2018O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of this death?\u2019 (Rom. 7.24)",
  "* Seeing that the Scripture saith, God has made all for His own glory (Isa. 43.7), surely His creatures ought to conform themselves, as much as they can, to His will. In Him should all our affections center, so that in all things we should seek only to do His will, not to please ourselves. And real happiness will come, not in gratifying our desires or in gaining transient pleasures, but in accomplishing God\u2019s will for us: even as we pray every day: \u2018Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven\u2019 (Matt. 6.10). O chaste and holy love! O sweet and gracious affection! O pure and cleansed purpose, thoroughly washed and purged from any admixture of selfishness, and sweetened by contact with the divine will! To reach this state is to become deified. As a drop of water poured into wine loses itself, and takes the color and savor of wine; or as a bar of iron, heated red-hot, becomes like fire itself, forgetting its own nature; or as the air, radiant with sun-beams, seems not so much to be illuminated as to be light itself; so in the saints all human affections melt away by some unspeakable transmutation into the will of God. For how could God be all in all, if anything merely human remained in man? The substance will endure, but in another beauty, a higher power, a greater glory. When will that be? Who will see, who possess it? \u2018When shall I come to appear before the presence of God?\u2019 (Ps. 42.2). \u2018My heart hath talked of Thee, Seek ye My face: Thy face, Lord, will I seek\u2019 (Ps. 27.8). Lord, thinkest Thou that I, even I shall see Thy holy temple?",
  "** That beast of the Apocalypse, to whom is given a mouth speaking blasphemies, and to make war with the saints, is sitting on the throne of Peter, like a lion ready for his prey.",
  "** One cannot now say, the priest is as the people, for the truth is that the people are not so bad as the priest.",
  "** He that will teach himself in school, becomes a scholar to a fool.",
  "** It is commonly said: What the eye doesnt see, the heart doesnt grieve.",
  "** Who loves me, loves my dog.",
  "** I, for one, shall speak about those obstinate Greeks, who are with us and against us, united in faith and divided in peace, though in truth their faith may stray from the straight path.",
  "* The true measure of loving God is to love Him without measure.",
  "* The faith of simplicity is mocked, the secrets of Christ profaned, questions on the highest things are impertinently asked, the Fathers scorned because they were disposed to conciliate rather than solve such problems. Human reason is snatching everything to itself, leaving nothing for faith. It falls upon things which are beyond it...desecrates sacred things more than clarifies them. It does not unlock mysteries and symbols, but tears them asunder; it makes nought of everything to which it cannot gain access and disdains to believe all such things.",
  "* Prostrate, see Thy cross I grasp,And Thy pierced feet I clasp;Gracious Jesus, spurn me not;On me, with compassion fraught,Let Thy glances fall.Thy cross of agony,My Beloved, look on me;Turn me wholly unto Thee;\"Be thou whole,\" say openly:\"I forgive thee all.\"",
  "* Our King [Jesus] is accused of treachery; it is said of him [by the Muslims] that he is not God, but that he falsely pretended to be something he was not.",
  "*Obey your bishop! \u201cObey those set over you [Heb 13:17],\u201d the teachers of the Church\u2026. I remind you, my dear friends, of what I said when I was with you: do not receive any outside or unknown preacher, unless he be sent by your bishop or preaches with the permission of the pope. For \u201chow shall they preach unless they are sent [Rom 10:15]?\u201d",
  "*Do what Jesus says,... what he commands through his ministers who are in the Church [see 1 Cor 6:4]. Be subject to his vicars, your leaders, not only those who are gentle and kind, but even those who are overbearing [see 1 Pt 2:18].",
  "*It\u2019s not as if grace did one half of the work and free choice the other; each does the whole work, in its own peculiar contribution. Grace does the whole work, and so does free choice \u2013 with this one qualification: That whereas the whole is done in free choice, so is the whole done of grace.",
  "*I rejoiced so greatly when I heard of your answer in the case of some who seemed to be filled with extravagant ambition  for the office of legate, and to hope for it with impudence, even more than I can say. And not only I but all who love your name rejoiced with exceeding great joy. Moreover, when I read your letter written in the cause of the Church of Rodez,  then was my mouth filled with laughter and my tongue with joy. Such things as these are worthy of your Apostleship, they honour the highest See, they are just what is becoming to the Bishop of the world. Whence, also, I bow my knees to the Author of your unique Primacy...  In truth, you have been raised to this chair for the fall and rising again of many.",
  "*Look at those detractors. Look at those dogs. They ridicule us for baptizing infants, praying for the dead, and asking the prayers of the saints. They lose no time in cutting Christ off from all kinds of people to both sexes, young and old, living and dead. They put infants outside the sphere of grace because they are too young to receive it, and those who are full grown because they find difficulty in preserving chastity. They deprive the dead of the help of the living, and rob the living of the prayers of the saints because they have died. God forbid! The Lord will not forsake his people who are as the sands of the sea, nor will he who redeemed all be content with a few, and those heretics...."
]