[
  "* I have at last come to the end of the Faerie Queene: and though I say \"at last\", I almost wish he had lived to write six books more as he had hoped to do \u2014\u00a0so much have I enjoyed it.",
  "* The man is a humbug \u2014 a vulgar, shallow, self-satisfied mind, absolutely inaccessible to the complexities and delicacies of the real world. He has the journalists air of being a specialist in everything, of taking in all points of view and being always on the side of the angels: he merely annoys a reader who has the least experience of knowing things, of what knowing is like. There is not two pence worth of real thought or real nobility in him. But he isnt dull...",
  "* I cant imagine a man really enjoying a book and reading it only once.",
  "* Friendship is the greatest of worldly goods. Certainly to me it is the chief happiness of life. If I had to give a piece of advice to a young man about a place to live, I think I shd. say, sacrifice almost everything to live where you can be near your friends.",
  "* For me, reason is the natural organ of truth; but imagination is the organ of meaning. Imagination, producing new metaphors or revivifying old, is not the cause of truth, but its condition.",
  "* On recent and contemporary literature [students] need is least and our help least. They ought to understand it better than we, and if they do not then there is something radically wrong either with them or with the literature. But I need not labour the point. There is an intrinsic absurdity in making current literature a subject of academic study, and the student who wants a tutors assistance in reading the works of his own contemporaries might as well ask for a nurses assistance in blowing his own nose.",
  "* Only the skilled can judge the skilfulness, but that is not the same as judging the value of the result.",
  "* A man, an adult, is precisely what [Aeneas] is: Achilles had been little more than a passionate boy.",
  "* The heart of Christianity is a myth which is also a fact.",
  "* I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen. Not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else.",
  "*I am a democrat because I believe that no man or group of men is good enough to be trusted with uncontrolled power over others. And the higher the pretensions of such power, the more dangerous I think it both to the rulers and to the subjects. Hence Theocracy is the worst of all governments. If we must have a tyrant a robber baron is far better than an inquisitor. The barons cruelty may sometimes sleep, his cupidity at some point be sated, and since he dimly knows he is doing wrong he may possibly repent. But the inquisitor who mistakes his own cruelty and lust of power and fear for the voice of Heaven will torment us infinitely because he torments us with the approval of his own conscience and his better impulses appear to him as temptations. And since Theocracy is the worst, the nearer any government approaches to Theocracy the worse it will be. A metaphysic, held by the rulers with the force of a religion, is a bad sign. It forbids them, like the inquisitor, to admit any grain of truth or good in their opponents, it abrogates the ordinary rules of morality, and it gives a seemingly high, super-personal sanction to all the very ordinary human passions by which, like other men, the rulers will frequently be actuated. In other words, it forbids wholesome doubt. [...]This false certainty comes out in Professor Haldanes article. [...] It is breaking Aristotles canon\u2014to demand in every enquiry that degree of certainty which the subject matter allows. And not on your life to pretend that you see further than you do.Being a democrat, I am opposed to all very drastic and sudden changes of society (in whatever direction) because they never in fact take place except by a particular technique. That technique involves the seizure of power by a small, highly disciplined group of people; the terror and the secret police follow, it would seem, automatically. I do not think any group good enough to have such power. They are men of like passions with ourselves. The secrecy and discipline of their organisation will have already inflamed in them that passion for the inner ring which I think at least as corrupting as avarice; and their high ideological pretensions will have lent all their passions the dangerous prestige of the Cause. Hence, in whatever direction the change is made, it is for me damned by its modus operandi. The worst of all public dangers is the committee of public safety.",
  "* I believe Buddhism to be a simplification of Hinduism and Islam to be a simplification of Xianity.",
  "* I think that if God forgives us we must forgive ourselves. Otherwise it is almost like setting up ourselves as a higher tribunal than Him.",
  "* It is Christ Himself, not the Bible, who is the true Word of God. The Bible, read in the right spirit and with the guidance of good teachers, will bring us to Him.",
  "* I am almost inclined to set it up as a canon that a childrens story which is enjoyed only by children is a bad childrens story. The good ones last. A waltz which you can like only when you are waltzing is a bad waltz.",
  "* Critics who treat adult as a term of approval, instead of as a merely descriptive term, cannot be adult themselves. To be concerned about being grown up, to admire the grown up because it is grown up, to blush at the suspicion of being childish; these things are the marks of childhood and adolescence. And in childhood and adolescence they are, in moderation, healthy symptoms. Young things ought to want to grow. But to carry on into middle life or even into early manhood this concern about being adult is a mark of really arrested development. When I was ten, I read fairy tales in secret and would have been ashamed if I had been found doing so. Now that I am fifty I read them openly. When I became a man I put away childish things, including the fear of childishness and the desire to be very grown up.",
  "* He [the child] does not despise real woods because he has read of enchanted woods: the reading makes all real woods a little enchanted.",
  "* I became my own only when I gave myself to Another.",
  "* Every story of conversion is the story of a blessed defeat.",
  "* The very man who has argued you down will sometimes be found, years later, to have been influenced by what you said.",
  "* A strict allegory is like a puzzle with a solution: a great romance is like a flower whose smell reminds you of something you cant quite place. I think the something is the whole quality of life as we actually experience it.",
  "* We are not necessarily doubting that God will do the best for us; we are wondering how painful the best will turn out to be.",
  "* \"Everything\" is a subject on which there is not much to be said.",
  "* A great myth is relevant as long as the predicament of humanity lasts; as long as humanity lasts. It will always work, on those who can receive it, the same catharsis.",
  "* The human imagination has seldom had before it an object so sublimely ordered as the medieval cosmos. If it has an aesthetic fault, it is perhaps, for us who have known romanticism, a shade too ordered. For all its vast spaces it might in the end afflict us with a kind of claustrophobia. Is there nowhere any vagueness? No undiscovered by-ways? No twilight? Can we never really get out of doors?",
  "* I wrote the books I should have liked to read. Thats always been my reason for writing. People wont write the books I want, so I have to do it for myself.",
  "* Looking for God\u2014or Heaven\u2014by exploring space is like reading or seeing all Shakespeares plays in the hope that you will find Shakespeare as one of the characters or Stratford as one of the places. Shakespeare is in one sense present at every moment in every play.",
  "* You cant get a cup of tea large enough or a book long enough to suit me.",
  "* [M]y friend Professor Tolkien asked me the very simple question, \"What class of men would you expect to be most preoccupied with, and most hostile to, the idea of escape?\" and gave the obvious answer: jailers.",
  "* The way for a person to develop a [writing] style is (a) to know exactly what he wants to say, and (b) to be sure he is saying exactly that. The reader, we must remember, does not start by knowing what we mean. If our words are ambiguous, our meaning will escape him. I sometimes think that writing is like driving sheep down a road. If there is any gate open to the left or the right the readers will most certainly go into it.",
  "* The chief pleasure of his life in these days was to go down the road and look through the window in the wall in the hope of seeing the beautiful Island. ... the sight of the Island and the sounds became very rare ... and the yearning for the sight ... became so terrible that John thought he would die if he did not have them again soon. ... it came into his head that he might perhaps get the old feeling-for what, he thought, had the Island ever given him but a feeling?\u2013by imagining. He shut his eyes and set his teeth again and made a picture of the Island in his mind.",
  "*He begins to think for himself and meets Nineteenth-century Rationalism Which can explain away religion by any number of methods.",
  "*If you make the same guess often enough it ceases to be a guess and becomes a Scientific Fact. This is the inductive method.",
  "* He came in sight of a pass guarded by armed men. \u2018you cannot pass \u2026 Do you not know that all this country belongs to the Spirit of the Age? \u2026 Here Enlightenment, take this fugitive to our Master.\u2019",
  "*Then I dreamed that one day there was nothing but milk for them and the jailer said as he put down the pipkin: \u2018Our relations with the cow are not delicate-as you can easily see if you imagine eating any of her other secretions.\u2019 ... John said, \u2018Thank heavens! Now at last I know that you are talking nonsense. You are trying to pretend that unlike things are like. You are trying to make us think that milk is the same sort of thing as sweat or dung.\u2019 \u2018And pray, what difference is there except by custom?\u2019 \u2018Are you a liar or only a fool, that you see no difference between that which Nature casts out as refuse and that which she stores up as food?\u2019 ",
  "*John \u2013 Im trying to find the Island in the West. Sensible \u2013 You refer, no doubt to some aesthetic experience.",
  "*I am sorry that my convictions do not allow me to repeat my friends offer, said one of the others. But I have had to abandon the humanitarian and egalitarian fancies. His name was Mr. Neo-Classical.",
  "*I hope, said the third, that your wanderings in lonely places do not mean that you have any of the romantic virus still in your blood. His name was Mr. Humanist. ",
  "*Mr. Neo-Angular \u2013 I am doing my duty. My ethics are based on dogma, not on feeling. Vertue \u2013 I know that a rule is to be obeyed because it is a rule and not because it appeals to my feelings at the moment.",
  "*Savage \u2013 There is only one way fit for a man \u2013 Heroism, or Master-Morality, or Violence. All the other people in between are ploughing the sand.",
  "*Wisdom: The first error is that of the southern people, and it consists in holding that these eastern and western places are real places. ... give no quarter to that thought, whether it threatens you with fear, or tempts you with hopes. For this is Superstition and all who believe it will come in the end to the swamps to the south and the jungles to the far south. Part of the same error is to think that the Landlord is a real man:",
  "*But supposing one tries to live by Pantheistic philosophy? Does it lead to a complacent Hegelian optimism?",
  "*Then he tried to recall the lessons of Mr. Wisdom. \u201cit is I myself, eternal Spirit, who drives this Me, the slave, along that ledge. I ought not to care whether he falls and breaks his neck or not. It is not he that is real, it is I \u2013 I \u2013 I.",
  "*The wraith of Sigmund said. \u201cYou know what this is, I suppose. Religious melancholia. Stop while there is time. If you dive, you dive into insanity.\u201d",
  "*Mr. Sensible learned only catchwords from them. He could talk like Epicurus of spare diet, but he was a glutton. He had from Montaigne the language of friendship, but no friend.",
  "*The Guide sang: Nearly they stood who fall; Themselves as they look back See always in the track The one false step, where all Even yet, by lightest swerve Of foot not yet enslaved, By smallest tremor of the smallest nerve, Might have been saved. Nearly they fell who stand, And with cold after fear Look back to mark how near They grazed the Sirens land, Wondering that subtle fate, By threads so spidery fine, The choice of ways so small, the event so great, Should thus entwine. Therefore oh, man, have fear Lest oldest fears be true, Lest thou too far pursue The road that seems so clear, And step, secure, a hair-breadth bourne, Which, being once crossed forever unawares, Denies return.",
  "*The Guide sang: The new age, the new art, the new ethic and thought, And fools crying, Because it has begun It will continue as it has begun! The wheel runs fast, therefore the wheel will run Faster for ever, The old age is done, We have new lights and see without the sun. (Though they lay flat the mountains and dry up the sea, Wilt thou yet change, as though God were a god?)",
  "*Our father was married twice, continued Humanist. Once to a lady named Epichaerecacia, and afterwards to Euphuia...",
  "* \"A pleasure is full grown only when it is remembered. You are speaking, Hm\u0101n, as if the pleasure were one thing and the memory another. It is all one thing. The s\u00e9roni could say it better than I say it now. Not better than I could say it in a poem. What you call remembering is the last part of the pleasure, as the crah is the last part of a poem. When you and I met, the meeting was over very shortly, it was nothing. Now it is growing something as we remember it. But still we know very little about it. What it will be when I remember it as I lie down to die, what it makes in me all my days till then\u2013that is the real meeting. The other is only the beginning of it.\"",
  "* \"And I say also this. I do not think the forest would be so bright, nor the water so warm, nor love so sweet, if there were no danger in the lakes.\"",
  "* Love is something more stern and splendid than mere kindness.",
  "* Love may forgive all infirmities and love still in spite of them: but Love cannot cease to will their removal.",
  "* Everyone feels benevolent if nothing happens to be annoying him at the moment.",
  "* God whispers to us in our pleasures, speaks in our conscience, but shouts in our pains: it is His megaphone to rouse a deaf world.",
  "* God will look to every soul like its first love because He is its first love.",
  "* Try to exclude the possibility of suffering which the order of nature and the existence of free-wills involve, and you find that you have excluded life itself.",
  "* What would really satisfy us would be a God who said of anything we happened to like, \"What does it matter so long as they are contented?\" We want, in fact, not so much a Father in Heaven as a grandfather in heaven \u2014 a senile benevolence who, as they say, \"liked to see young people enjoying themselves\" and whose plan for the universe was simply that it might be truly said at the end of each day, \"a good time was had by all\".",
  "* In the long run the answer to all those who object to the doctrine of hell, is itself a question: What are you asking God to do? To wipe out their past sins and, at all costs, to give them a fresh start, smoothing every difficulty and offering every miraculous help? But He has done so, on Calvary. To forgive them? They will not be forgiven. To leave them alone? Alas, I am afraid that is what He does.",
  "* I call this Divine humility because it is a poor thing to strike our colours to God when the ship is going down under us; a poor thing to come to Him as a last resort, to offer up \"our own\" when it is no longer worth keeping. If God were proud He would hardly have us on such terms: but He is not proud, He stoops to conquer, He will have us even though we have shown that we prefer everything else to Him, and come to Him because there is \"nothing better\" now to be had.",
  "* If He who in Himself can lack nothing chooses to need us, it is because we need to be needed.",
  "* Even atheists rebel and express, like Hardy and Housman, their rage against God although (or because) He does not, on their view, exist...",
  "* You must show that a man is wrong before you start explaining why he is wrong. The modern method is to assume without discussion that he is wrong and then distract his attention from this (the only real issue) by busily explaining how he became so silly. In the course of the last fifteen years I have found this vice so common that I have had to invent a name for it. I call it \u201cBulverism\u201d. Some day I am going to write the biography of its imaginary inventor, Ezekiel Bulver, whose destiny was determined at the age of five when he heard his mother say to his father\u2014who had been maintaining that two sides of a triangle were together greater than a third\u2014\u201dOh you say that because you are a man.\u201d \u201cAt that moment\u201d, E. Bulver assures us, \u201cthere flashed across my opening mind the great truth that refutation is no necessary part of argument. Assume that your opponent is wrong, and the world will be at your feet. Attempt to prove that he is wrong or (worse still) try to find out whether he is wrong or right, and the national dynamism of our age will thrust you to the wall.\u201d That is how Bulver became one of the makers of the Twentieth Century.",
  "* Suppose I think, after doing my accounts, that I have a large balance at the bank. And suppose you want to find out whether this belief of mine is \u201cwishful thinking.\u201d You can never come to any conclusion by examining my psychological condition. Your only chance of finding out is to sit down and work through the sum yourself. When you have checked my figures, then, and then only, will you know whether I have that balance or not. If you find my arithmetic correct, then no amount of vapouring about my psychological condition can be anything but a waste of time. If you find my arithmetic wrong, then it may be relevant to explain psychologically how I came to be so bad at my arithmetic, and the doctrine of the concealed wish will become relevant\u2014but only after you have yourself done the sum and discovered me to be wrong on purely arithmetical grounds. It is the same with all thinking and all systems of thought. If you try to find out which are tainted by speculating about the wishes of the thinkers, you are merely making a fool of yourself. You must first find out on purely logical grounds which of them do, in fact, break down as arguments. Afterwards, if you like, go on and discover the psychological causes of the error.",
  "* There are two equal and opposite errors into which our race can fall about the devils. One is to disbelieve in their existence. The other is to believe, and to feel an excessive and unhealthy interest in them. They themselves are equally pleased by both errors and hail a materialist or a magician with the same delight.",
  "* There is wishful thinking in Hell as well as on Earth.",
  "* I live in the Managerial Age, in a world of \"Admin.\" The greatest evil is not now done in those sordid \"dens of crime\" that Dickens loved to paint. It is not done even in concentration camps and labour camps. In those we see its final result. But it is conceived and ordered (moved, seconded, carried, and minuted) in clean, carpeted, warmed, and well-lighted offices, by quiet men with white collars and cut fingernails and smooth-shaven cheeks who do not need to raise their voice. Hence, naturally enough, my symbol for Hell is something like the bureaucracy of a police state or the offices of a thoroughly nasty business concern.",
  "* My dear Wormwood, I note what you say about guiding your patients reading and taking care that he sees a good deal of his materialist friend. But are you not being a trifle naive? It sounds as if you suppose that argument was the way to keep him out of the enemys clutches. That might have been so if he had lived a few centuries earlier.",
  "* Of course a war is entertaining. The immediate fear and suffering of the humans is a legitimate and pleasing refreshment for our myriads of toiling workers. But what permanent good does it do us unless we make use of it for bringing souls to Our Father Below? When I see the temporal suffering of humans who finally escape us, I feel as if I had been allowed to taste the first course of a rich banquet and then denied all the rest. It is worse than not to have tasted it at all. The Enemy, true to His barbarous methods of warfare, allows us to see the short misery of His favourites only to tantalize and torment us \u2014 to mock the incessant hunger, which, during this present phase of great conflict, His blockade is admittedly imposing.",
  "* Humans are amphibians \u2014 half spirit and half animal.... As spirits they belong to the eternal world, but as animals they inhabit time.",
  "* Our cause is never more in danger than when a human, no longer desiring, but still intending to do our Enemys will, looks round upon a universe from which every trace of Him seems to have vanished, and asks why he has been forsaken, and still obeys.",
  "* All mortals tend to turn into the thing they are pretending to be.",
  "* The safest road to Hell is the gradual one \u2014 the gentle slope, soft underfoot, without sudden turnings, without milestones, without signposts.",
  "* When they have really learned to love their neighbours as themselves, they will be allowed to love themselves as their neighbours.",
  "* The humans live in time but our Enemy (God) destines them for eternity.",
  "* Gratitude looks to the past and love to the present; fear, avarice, lust, and ambition look ahead.",
  "* Much of the modern resistance to chastity comes from mens belief that they \"own\" their bodies \u2014 those vast and perilous estates, pulsating with the energy that made the worlds, in which they find themselves without their consent and from which they are ejected at the pleasure of Another!",
  "* Courtship is the time for sowing those seeds which will grow up ten years into domestic hatred.",
  "* A sensible human once said, \"If people knew how much ill-feeling unselfishness occasions, it would not be so often recommended from the pulpit\"; and again, \"Shes the sort of woman who lives for others\u2014you can always tell the others by their hunted expression.\"",
  "* The hatefulness of a hated person is \"real\"\u2014in hatred you see men as they are; you are disillusioned; but the loveliness of a loved person is merely a subjective haze concealing a \"real\" core of sexual appetite or economic association. Wars and poverty are \"really\" horrible; peace and plenty are mere physical facts about which men happen to have certain sentiments.",
  "* And all the time \u2014 such is the tragi-comedy of our situation \u2014 we continue to clamor for those very qualities we are rendering impossible. You can hardly open a periodical without coming across the statement that what our civilization needs is more \u201cdrive\u201d, or dynamism, or self-sacrifice, or \u201ccreativity\u201d. In a sort of ghastly simplicity we remove the organ and demand the function. We make men without chests and expect of them virtue and enterprise. We laugh at honour and are shocked to find traitors in our midst. We castrate and bid the geldings be fruitful.",
  "* What we call Mans power over Nature turns out to be a power exercised by some men over other men with Nature as its instrument.",
  "* We reduce things to mere Nature in order that we may conquer them.",
  "* It is the magicians bargain: give up our soul, get power in return. But once our souls, that is, ourselves, have been given up, the power thus conferred will not belong to us. We shall in fact be the slaves and puppets of that to which we have given our souls.",
  "* What is now common to all men is a mere abstract universal, an H.C.F. [Highest Common Factor], and Mans conquest of himself means simply the rule of the Conditioners over the conditioned human material, the world of post-humanity which, some knowingly and some unknowingly, nearly all men in all nations are at present labouring to produce.",
  "* There is something which unites magic and applied science while separating both from the wisdom of earlier ages. For the wise men of old the cardinal problem had been how to conform the soul to reality, and the solution had been knowledge, self-discipline, and virtue. For magic and applied science alike the problem is how to subdue reality to the wishes of men.",
  "* I am a democrat because I believe in the Fall of Man. I think most people are democrats for the opposite reason. ",
  "* I dont deserve a share in governing a hen-roost, much less a nation. Nor do most people \u2014 all the people who believe advertisements, and think in catchwords and spread rumors. The real reason for democracy is just the reverse. Mankind is so fallen that no man can be trusted with unchecked power over his fellows. Aristotle said that some people were only fit to be slaves. I do not contradict him. But I reject slavery because I see no men fit to be masters.",
  "* Legal and economic equality are absolutely necessary remedies for the Fall, and protection against cruelty.",
  "* There is no spiritual sustenance in flat equality. It is a dim recognition of this fact which makes much of our political propaganda sound so thin. We are trying to be enraptured by something which is merely the negative condition of the good life. That is why the imagination of people is so easily captured by appeals to the craving for inequality, whether in a romantic form of films about loyal courtiers or in the brutal form of Nazi ideology. The tempter always works on some real weakness in our own system of values \u2014 offers food to some need which we have starved.",
  "* When equality is treated not as a medicine or a safety-gadget, but as an ideal, we begin to breed that stunted and envious sort of mind which hates all superiority. That mind is the special disease of democracy, as cruelty and servility are the special diseases of privileged societies. It will kill us all if it grows unchecked. The man who cannot conceive a joyful and loyal obedience on the one hand, nor an unembarrassed and noble acceptance of that obedience on the other \u2014 the man who has never even wanted to kneel or to bow \u2014 is a prosaic barbarian. But it would be wicked folly to restore these old inequalities on the legal or external plane. Their proper place is elsewhere.",
  "* Friends are not primarily absorbed in each other. It is when we are doing things together that friendship springs up \u2013 painting, sailing ships, praying, philosophizing, fighting shoulder to shoulder. Friends look in the same direction. Lovers look at each other \u2014 that is, in opposite directions. To transfer bodily all that belongs to one relationship into the other is blundering.",
  "* We Britons should rejoice that we have contrived to reach much legal democracy (we still need more of the economic) without losing our ceremonial Monarchy. For there, right in the midst of our lives, is that which satisfies the craving for inequality, and acts as a permanent reminder that medicine is not food. Hence a mans reaction to Monarchy is a kind of test. Monarchy can easily be \"debunked\", but watch the faces, mark well the accents of the debunkers. These are the men whose taproot in Eden has been cut \u2014 whom no rumor of the polyphony, the dance, can reach \u2013 men to whom pebbles laid in a row are more beautiful than an arch. Yet even if they desire mere equality they cannot reach it. Where men are forbidden to honor a king they honor millionaires, athletes, or film-stars instead \u2014 even famous prostitutes or gangsters. For spiritual nature, like bodily nature, will be served \u2014 deny it food and it will gobble poison.",
  "* Every intrusion of the spirit that says, \"Im as good as you\" into our personal and spiritual life is to be resisted just as jealously as every intrusion of bureaucracy or privilege into our politics. Hierarchy within can alone preserve egalitarianism without. Romantic attacks on democracy will come again. We shall never be safe unless we already understand in our hearts all that the anti-democrats can say, and have provided for it better than they. Human nature will not permanently endure flat equality if it is extended from its proper political field into the more real, more concrete fields within. Let us wear equality; but let us undress every night.",
  "* When He died in the Wounded World He died not for men, but for each man. If each man had been the only man made, He would have done no less. Each thing, from the single grain of Dust to the strongest eldil, is the end and the final cause of all creation and the mirror in which the beam of His brightness comes to rest and so returns to Him. Blessed be He!",
  "* God can make good use of all that happens, but the loss is real.",
  "* I think He made one law of that kind in order that there might be obedience. In all these other matters what you call obeying Him is but doing what seems good in your eyes also. Is love content with that? You do them, indeed, because they are His will, but not only because they are his will. Where can you taste the joy of obeying unless he bids you do something for which His bidding is the only reason?",
  "* Whatever you do, He will make good of it. But not the good He had prepared for you if you had obeyed him.",
  "* You could send your soul after the good you had expected, instead of turning it to the good you had got. You could refuse the real good; you could make the real fruit taste insipid by thinking of the other.",
  "* And now, by a transition which he did not notice, it seemed that what had begun as speech was turned into sight, or into something that can be remembered only as if it were seeing. He thought he saw the Great Dance. It seemed to be woven out of the intertwining undulation of many cords or bands of light, leaping over and under one another and mutually embraced in arabesques and flower-like subtleties. Each figure as he looked at it became the master-figure or focus of the whole spectacle, by means of which his eye disentangled all else and brought it into unity \u2014 only to be itself entangled when he looked to what he had taken for mere marginal decorations and found that there also the same hegemony was claimed, and the claim made good, yet the former pattern thereby disposed but finding in its new subordination a significance greater than that which it had abdicated. He could see also (but the word \"seeing\" is now plainly inadequate) wherever the ribbons or serpents of light intersected minute corpuscles of momentary brightness: and he knew somehow that these particles were the secular generalities of which history tells \u2014 people, institutions, climates of opinion, civilizations, arts, sciences and the like \u2014 ephemeral coruscations that piped their short song and vanished. The ribbons or cords themselves, in which millions of corpuscles lived and died, were the things of some different kind. At first he could not say what. But he knew in the end that most of them were individual entities. If so, the time in which the Great Dance proceeds is very unlike time as we know it. Some of the thinner more delicate cords were the beings that we call short lived: flowers and insects, a fruit or a storm of rain, and once (he thought) a wave of the sea. Others were such things we think lasting: crystals, rivers, mountains, or even stars. Far above these in girth and luminosity and flashing with colours form beyond our spectrum were the lines of personal beings, yet as different from one another in splendour as all of them from the previous class. But not all the cords were individuals: some of them were universal truths or universal qualities. It did not surprise him then to find that these and the persons were both cords and both stood together as against the mere atoms of generality which lived and died in the clashing of their streams: But afterwards, when he came back to earth, he wondered. And by now the thing must have passed together out of the region of sight as we understand it. For he says that the whole figure of these enamored and inter-inanimate circlings was suddenly revealed as the mere superficies of a far vaster pattern in four dimensions, and that figure as the boundary of yet others in other worlds: till suddenly as the movement grew yet swifter, the interweaving yet more ecstatic, the relevance of all to all yet more intense, as dimension was added to dimension and that part of him which could reason and remember was dropped further and further behind that part of him which saw, even then, at the very zenith of complexity, complexity was eaten up and faded, as a thin white cloud fades into the hard blue burning of sky, and all simplicity beyond all comprehension, ancient and young as spring, illimitable, pellucid, drew him with cords of infinite desire into its own stillness. He went up into such a quietness, a privacy, and a freshness that at the very moment when he stood farthest from our ordinary mode of being he had the sense of stripping off encumbrances and awaking from a trance, and coming to himself. With a gesture of relaxation he looked about him...",
  "* Reality is harsh to the feet of shadows.",
  "* \"I wish I had never been born,\" she said. \"What are we born for?\" \"For infinite happiness,\" said the Spirit. \"You can step out into it at any moment...\"",
  "* [Mortals] say of some temporal suffering, \"No future bliss can make up for it,\" not knowing Heaven, once attained, will work backwards and turn even that agony into a glory. And of some sinful pleasure they say \"Let me have but this and Ill take the consequences\": little dreaming how damnation will spread back and back into their past and contaminate the pleasure of the sin. Both processes begin even before death.",
  "* \"Then those people are right who say that Heaven and Hell are only states of mind?\" \"Hush,\" he said sternly. \"Do not blaspheme. Hell is a state of mind \u2014 ye never said a truer word. And every state of mind, left to itself, every shutting up of the creature within the dungeon of its own mind \u2014 is, in the end, Hell. But Heaven is not a state of mind. Heaven is reality itself. All that is fully real is Heavenly.\"",
  "* \"Milton was right,\" said my Teacher. \"The choice of every lost soul can be expressed in the words Better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven. There is always something they insist on keeping even at the price of misery.\"",
  "* There have been men before ... who got so interested in proving the existence of God that they came to care nothing for God himself... as if the good Lord had nothing to do but to exist. There have been some who were so preoccupied with spreading Christianity that they never gave a thought to Christ.",
  "* But what of the poor Ghosts who never get into the omnibus at all?  Everyone who wishes it does. Never fear. There are only two kinds of people in the end: those who say to God, \"Thy will be done,\" and those to whom God says, in the end, \"Thy will be done.\" All that are in Hell, choose it. Without that self-choice there could be no Hell. No soul that seriously and constantly desires joy will ever miss it. Those who seek find. To those who knock it is opened. ",
  "* God! said the Ghost, glancing around the landscape.God what? asked the Spirit.What do you mean, \"God what\"? asked the Ghost.In our grammar God is a noun said the Spirit.",
  "* Every poet and musician and artist, but for Grace, is drawn away from love of the thing he tells to love of the telling till, down in Deep Hell, they cannot be interested in God at all but only in what they say about Him.",
  "* There is but one good; that is God. Everything else is good when it looks to Him and bad when it turns from Him.",
  "* \"Ye can know nothing of the end of all things, or nothing expressible in those terms. It may be, as the Lord said to the Lady Julian, that all will be well, and all will be well, and all manner of things will be well. But its ill talking of such questions.\"  \"Because they are too terrible, Sir?\"  \"No. Because all answers deceive. If ye put the question from within Time and are asking about possibilities, the answer is certain. The choice of ways is before you. Neither is closed. Any man may choose eternal death. Those who choose it will have it. But if ye are trying to leap on into Eternity, if ye are trying to see the final state of all things as it will be (for so ye must speak) when there are no more possibilities left but only the Real, then ye ask what cannot be answered to mortal ears. Time is the very lens through which ye see \u2014 small and clear, as men see through the wrong end of a telescope \u2014 something that would otherwise be too big for ye to see at all. That thing is Freedom: the gift whereby ye most resemble your Maker and are yourselves parts of eternal reality. But ye can see it only through the lens of Time, in a little clear picture, through the inverted telescope. It is a picture of moments following one another and yourself in each moment making some choice that might have been otherwise. Neither the temporal succession nor the phantom of what ye might have chosen and didnt is itself Freedom. They are a lens. The picture is a symbol: but its truer than any philosophical theorem (or, perhaps, than any mystics vision) that claims to go behind it. For every attempt to see the shape of eternity except through the lens of Time destroys your knowledge of Freedom.\"",
  "* It comes, it comes! they sang. Sleepers awake! It comes, it comes, it comes. One dreadful glance over my shoulder I essayed \u2014 not long enough to see (or did I see?) the rim of the sunrise that shoots Time dead with golden arrows and puts to flight all phantasmal shapes. Screaming, I buried my face in the fold of the Teachers robe. The morning! The morning! I cried. I am caught by the morning and I am a ghost.",
  "* \"Why you fool, its the educated reader who can be gulled. All our difficulty comes with the others. When did you meet a workman who believes the papers? He takes it for granted that theyre all propaganda and skips the leading articles. He buys his paper for the football results and the little paragraphs about girls falling out of windows and corpses found in Mayfair flats. He is our problem. We have to recondition him. But the educated public, the people who read the highbrow weeklies, don\u2019t need reconditioning. Theyre all right already. They\u2019ll believe anything.\"",
  "* \"They would say,\" he answered, \"that you do not fail in obedience through lack of love, but have lost love because you never attempted obedience.\"",
  "* \"The cardinal difficulty,\" said MacPhee, \"in collaboration between the sexes is that women speak a language without nouns. If two men are doing a bit of work, one will say to the other, Put this bowl inside the bigger bowl which youll find on the top shelf of the green cupboard. The female for this is, Put that in the other one in there. And then if you ask them, in where? they say, in there, of course. There is consequently a phatic hiatus.\"",
  "** Ch. 13 : They Have Pulled Down Deep Heaven on Their Heads",
  "** Ch. 13 : They Have Pulled Down Deep Heaven on Their Heads",
  "* Not till then did his controllers allow him to suspect that death itself might not after all cure the illusion of being a soulnay, might prove the entry into a world where that illusion raged infinite and unchecked. Escape for the soul, if not for the body, was offered him. He became able to know (and simultaneously refused the knowledge) that he had been wrong from the beginning, that souls and personal responsibility existed. He half saw: he wholly hated. The physical torture of the burning was not fiercer than his hatred of that.",
  "* If anything extraordinary seems to have happened, we can always say that we have been the victims of an illusion. If we hold a philosophy which excludes the supernatural, this is what we always shall say.",
  "* Christianity does not involve the belief that all things were made for man. It does involve the belief that God loves man and for his sake became man and died.",
  "* My form remains one, though the matter in it changes continually. I am, in that respect, like a curve in a waterfall.",
  "* If we are going to be destroyed by an atomic bomb, let that bomb when it comes find us doing sensible and human things  \u2014  praying, working, teaching, reading, listening to music, bathing the children, playing tennis, chatting to our friends over a pint and a game of darts  \u2014  not huddled together like frightened sheep and thinking about bombs. They might break our bodies (a microbe can do that) but they need not dominate our minds.",
  "* Perfect humility dispenses with modesty.",
  "* As long as this deliberate refusal to understand things from above, even where such understanding is possible, continues, it is idle to talk of any final victory over materialism.",
  "* We live, in fact, in a world starved for solitude, silence, and privacy: and therefore starved for meditation and true friendship.",
  "* 100 per cent of us die, and the percentage cannot be increased.",
  "* Indeed, if we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the Gospels, it would seem that Our Lord finds our desires, not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased.",
  "* It is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses, to remember that the dullest most uninteresting person you talk to may one day be a creature which, if you saw it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship, or else a horror and a corruption such as you now meet, if at all, only in a nightmare. All day long we are, in some degree helping each other to one or the other of these destinations. It is in the light of these overwhelming possibilities, it is with the awe and the circumspection proper to them, that we should conduct all of our dealings with one another, all friendships, all loves, all play, all politics. There are no ordinary people. You have never talked to a mere mortal. Nations, cultures, arts, civilizations \u2014 these are mortal, and their life is to ours as the life of a gnat. But it is immortals whom we joke with, work with, marry, snub, and exploit \u2014 immortal horrors or everlasting splendors.",
  "* At present we are on the outside of the world, the wrong side of the door. We discern the freshness and purity of the morning, but they do not make us fresh and pure. We cannot mingle with the splendours we see.  But all the leaves of the New Testament are rustling with the rumour that it will not always be so. Some day, God willing, we shall get in.",
  "* If there is equality, it is in His love, not in us.",
  "* When I attempted, a few minutes ago, to describe our spiritual longings, I was omitting one of their most curious characteristics. We usually notice it just as the moment of vision dies away, as the music ends or as the landscape loses the celestial light. What we feel then has been well described by Keats as \u201cthe journey homeward to habitual self.\u201d You know what I mean. For a few minutes we have had the illusion of belonging to that world. Now we wake to find that it is no such thing. We have been mere spectators. Beauty has smiled, but not to welcome us; her face was turned in our direction, but not to see us. We have not been accepted, welcomed, or taken into the dance. We may go when we please, we may stay if we can: \u201cNobody marks us.\u201d A scientist may reply that since most of the things we call beautiful are inanimate, it is not very surprising that they take no notice of us. That, of course, is true. It is not the physical objects that I am speaking of, but that indescribable something of which they become for a moment the messengers. And part of the bitterness which mixes with the sweetness of that message is due to the fact that it so seldom seems to be a message intended for us but rather something we have overheard. By bitterness I mean pain, not resentment. We should hardly dare to ask that any notice be taken of ourselves. But we pine. The sense that in this universe we are treated as strangers, the longing to be acknowledged, to meet with some response, to bridge some chasm that yawns between us and reality, is part of our inconsolable secret. And surely, from this point of view, the promise of glory, in the sense described, becomes highly relevant to our deep desire. For glory meant good report with God, acceptance by God, response, acknowledgment, and welcome into the heart of things. The door on which we have been knocking all our lives will open at last.",
  "* Some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again.",
  "* Though the Witch knew the Deep Magic, there is a magic deeper still which she did not know. Her knowledge goes back only to the dawn of Time.",
  "* Who believes in Aslan nowadays?",
  "* This is where dreams\u2014dreams, do you understand\u2014come to life, come real. Not daydreams: dreams.",
  "* There was a boy called Eustace Clarence Scrubb, and he almost deserved it.",
  "* It is the stupidest children who are most childish and the stupidest grown-ups who are most grown-up.",
  "* The trouble about trying to make yourself stupider than you really are is that you very often succeed.",
  "* All their life in this world and all their adventures in Narnia had only been the cover and the title page: now at last they were beginning Chapter One of the Great Story which no one on earth has read: which goes on for ever: in which every chapter is better than the one before.",
  "* When you have reached your own room, be kind to those who have chosen different doors and to those who are still in the hall. If they are wrong they need your prayers all the more; and if they are your enemies, then you are under orders to pray for them. That is one of the rules common to the whole house.",
  "* This year, or this month, or, more likely, this very day, we have failed to practise ourselves the kind of behaviour we expect from other people.",
  "* The most dangerous thing you can do is to take any one impulse of your own nature and set it up as the thing you ought to follow at all costs. There is not one of them which will not make us into devils if we set it up as an absolute guide. You might think love of humanity in general was safe, but it is not. If you leave out justice you will find yourself breaking agreements and faking evidence in trials \"for the sake of humanity\", and become in the end a cruel and treacherous man.",
  "* There is one thing, and only one, in the whole universe which we know more about than we could learn from external observation. That one thing is Man. We do not merely observe men, we are men. In this case we have, so to speak, inside information; we are in the know.",
  "* We all want progress. But progress means getting nearer to the place where you want to be. And if you have taken a wrong turning, then to go forward does not get you any nearer. If you are on the wrong road, progress means doing an about-turn and walking back to the right road; in that case the man who turns back soonest is the most progressive man.",
  "* We have two bits of evidence about the Somebody. One is the universe He has made. If we used that as our only clue, I think we should have to conclude that He was a great artist (for the universe is a very beautiful place), but also that He is quite merciless and no friend to man (for the universe is a very dangerous and terrifying place.) ...The other bit of evidence is that Moral Law which He has put in our minds. And this is a better bit of evidence than the other, because it is inside information. You find out more about God from the Moral Law than from the universe in general just as you find out more about a man by listening to his conversation than by looking at a house he has built.",
  "* This is the terrible fix we are in. If the universe is not governed by an absolute goodness, then all our efforts are in the long run hopeless. But if it is, then we are making ourselves enemies to that goodness every day, and are not in the least likely to do any better tomorrow, and so our case is hopeless again....God is the only comfort, He is also the supreme terror: the thing we most need and the thing we most want to hide from.",
  "* Some people talk as if meeting the gaze of absolute goodness would be fun. They need to think again. They are still only playing with religion. Goodness is either the great safety or the great danger\u2014according to the way you react to it.",
  "* My argument against God was that the universe seemed so cruel and unjust. But how had I got this idea of just and unjust? A man does not call a line crooked unless he has some idea of a straight line. What was I comparing this universe with when I called it unjust?",
  "* Badness is only spoiled goodness.",
  "* Of course God knew what would happen if they used their freedom the wrong way: apparently He thought it worth the risk.",
  "* All that we call human history\u2014money, poverty, ambition, war, prostitution, classes, empires, slavery\u2014the long terrible story of man trying to find something other than God which will make him happy.",
  "* God made us: invented us as a man invents an engine. A car is made to run on petrol, and it would not run properly on anything else. Now God designed the human machine to run on Himself.",
  "* God cannot give us a happiness and peace apart from Himself, because it is not there. There is no such thing.",
  "* Among these Jews there suddenly turns up a man who goes about talking as if He was God. He claims to forgive sins. He says He has always existed. He says He is coming to judge the world at the end of time. Now let us get this clear. Among Pantheists, like the Indians, anyone might say that he was a part of God, or one with God: there would be nothing very odd about it. But this man, since He was a Jew, could not mean that kind of God. God, in their language, meant the Being outside of the world, who had made it and was infinitely different from anything else. And when you have grasped that, you will see that what this man said was, quite simply, the most shocking thing that has ever been uttered by human lips.",
  "* I am trying here to prevent anyone saying the really foolish thing that people often say about Him: Im ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher, but I dont accept His claim to be God. That is the one thing we must not say. A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. He would be either a lunatic\u2014on a level with the man who says he is a poached egg\u2014or else he would be the Devil of Hell. You must make your choice. Either this man was, and is, the Son of God: or else a madman or something worse. You can shut Him up for a fool, you can spit at Him and kill Him as a demon; or you can fall at His feet and call Him Lord and God. But let us not come with any patronising nonsense about His being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. He did not intend to.",
  "* We are told that Christ was killed for us, that His death has washed out our sins, and that by dying He has disabled death itself. That is the formula. That is Christianity. That is what has to be believed. Any theories we build up as to how Christs death did all this are, in my view, quite secondary: mere plans or diagrams to be left alone if they do not help us, and, if they do help us, not to be confused with the thing itself.",
  "* He [God] lends us a little of His reasoning powers and that is how we think: He puts a little of His love into us and that is how we love one another. When you teach a child writing, you hold its hand while it forms the letters: that is, it forms the letters because you are forming them. We love and reason because God loves and reasons and holds our hand while we do it.",
  "* The Christian is in a different position from other people who are trying to be good. They hope, by being good, to please God if there is one; or\u2014if they think there is not\u2014at least they hope to deserve approval from good men. But the Christian thinks any good he does comes from the Christ-life inside him. He does not think God will love us because we are good, but that God will make us good because He loves us; just as the roof of a greenhouse does not attract the sun because it is bright, but becomes bright because the sun shines on it.",
  "* Now, to-day, this moment, is our chance to choose the right side. God is holding back to give us that chance. It will not last for ever. We must take it or leave it.",
  "* Every time you make a choice you are turning the central part of you, the part of you that chooses, into something a little different from what it was before. And taking your life as a whole, with all your innumerable choices, all your life long you are slowly turning this central thing either into a heavenly creature or into a hellish creature: either into a creature that is in harmony with God, and with other creatures, and with itself, or else into one that is in a state of war and hatred with God, and with its fellow-creatures, and with itself. To be the one kind of creature is heaven: that is, it is joy and peace and knowledge and power. To be the other means madness, horror, idiocy, rage, impotence, and eternal loneliness. Each of us at each moment is progressing to the one state or the other.",
  "* The sins of the flesh are bad, but they are the least bad of all sins. All the worst pleasures are purely spiritual: the pleasure of putting other people in the wrong, of bossing and patronising and spoiling sport, and back-biting; the pleasures of power, of hatred. For there are two things inside me, competing with the human self which I must try to become. They are the Animal self, and the Diabolical self. The Diabolical self is the worse of the two. That is why a cold, self-righteous prig who goes regularly to church may be far nearer to hell than a prostitute. But, of course, it is better to be neither.",
  "* Being in love is a good thing, but it is not the best thing. There are many things below it, but there are also things above it. You cannot make it the basis of a whole life. It is a noble feeling, but it is still a feeling... Knowledge can last, principles can last, habits can last; but feelings come and go... But, of course, ceasing to be \"in love\" need not mean ceasing to love. Love in this second sense\u2014love as distinct from \"being in love\"\u2014is not merely a feeling. It is a deep unity, maintained by the will and deliberately strengthened by habit; reinforced by (in Christian marriages) the grace which both partners ask, and receive, from God... \"Being in love\" first moved them to promise fidelity: this quieter love enables them to keep the promise. It is on this love that the engine of marriage is run: being in love was the explosion that started it.",
  "* It is simply no good trying to keep any thrill: that is the very worst thing you can do. Let the thrill go\u2014let it die away\u2014go on through that period of death into the quieter interest and happiness that follow\u2014and you will find you are living in a world of new thrills all the time. But if you decide to make thrills your regular diet and try to prolong them artificially, they will all get weaker and weaker, and fewer and fewer, and you will be a bored, disillusioned old man for the rest of your life. It is because so few people understand this that you find many middle-aged men and women maundering about their lost youth, at the very age when new horizons ought to be appearing and new doors opening all round them. It is much better fun to learn to swim than to go on endlessly (and hopelessly) trying to get back the feeling you had when you first went paddling as a small boy.",
  "* Pride leads to every other vice: it is the complete anti-God state of mind.",
  "* A proud man is always looking down on things and people: and, of course, as long as you are looking down, you cannot see something that is above you.",
  "* If you read history you will find that the Christians who did most for the present world were just those who thought most of the next... It is since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have become so ineffective in this. Aim at Heaven and you will get earth \"thrown in\": aim at earth and you will get neither.",
  "* If I find in myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world.",
  "* I am not asking anyone to accept Christianity if his best reasoning tells him that the weight of the evidence is against it.",
  "* There are two parodies of the truth which different sets of Christians have, in the past, been accused by other Christians of believing: perhaps they may make the truth clearer. One set were accused of saying, \"Good actions are all that matters. The best good action is charity. The best kind of charity is giving money. The best thing to give money to is the Church. So hand us over \u20a410,000 and we will see you through.\" The answer to that nonsense, of course, would be that good actions done for that motive, done with the idea that Heaven can be bought, would not be good actions at all, but only commercial speculations. The other set were accused of saying, \"Faith is all that matters. Consequently, if you have faith, it doesnt matter what you do. Sin away, my lad, and have a good time and Christ will see that it makes no difference in the end.\" The answers to that nonsense is that, if what you call your \"faith\" in Christ does not involve taking the slightest notice of what he says, then it is not Faith at all\u2014not faith or trust in Him, but only intellectual acceptance of some theory of Him.",
  "* You can put this another way by saying that while in other sciences the instruments you use are things external to yourself (things like microscopes and telescopes), the instrument through which you see God is your whole self. And if a mans self is not kept clean and bright, his glimpse of God will be blurred\u2014like the Moon seen through a dirty telescope. That is why horrible nations have horrible religions: they have been looking at God through a dirty lens.",
  "* They [Christians] believe that the living, dynamic activity of love has been going on in God forever and has created everything else. And that, by the way, is perhaps the most important difference between Christianity and all other religions: that in Christianity God is not an impersonal thing nor a static thing\u2014not even just one person\u2014but a dynamic pulsating activity, a life, a kind of drama, almost, if you will not think me irreverent, a kind of dance ... (The) pattern of this three-personal life is ... the great fountain of energy and beauty spurting up at the very center of reality.",
  "* Every Christian is to become a little Christ. The whole purpose of becoming a Christian is simply nothing else.",
  "* He [the devil] always sends errors into the world in pairs\u2014pairs of opposites. And he always encourages us to spend a lot of time thinking which is the worse. You see why, of course? He relies on your extra dislike of the one error to draw you gradually into the opposite one. But do not let us be fooled. We have to keep our eyes on the goal and go straight through between both errors. We have no other concern than that with either of them. ",
  "* The more you obey your conscience, the more your conscience will demand of you.",
  "* Imagine yourself as a living house. God comes in to rebuild that house. At first, perhaps, you can understand what He is doing. He is getting the drains right and stopping the leaks in the roof and so on: you knew that those jobs needed doing and so you are not surprised. But presently he starts knocking the house about in a way that hurts abominably and does not seem to make sense. What on earth is He up to? The explanation is that He is building quite a different house from the one you thought of\u2014throwing out a new wing here, putting on an extra floor there, running up towers, making courtyards. You thought you were going to be made into a decent little cottage: but He is building a palace. He intends to come and live in it Himself.",
  "* What can you ever really know of other peoples souls \u2014 of their temptations, their opportunities, their struggles? One soul in the whole creation you do know: and it is the only one whose fate is placed in your hands. If there is a God, you are, in a sense, alone with Him. You cannot put Him off with speculations about your next door neighbours or memories of what you have read in books.",
  "* \"Say what you like,\" we shall be told, \"the apocalyptic beliefs of the first Christians have been proved to be false. It is clear from the New Testament that they all expected the Second Coming in their own lifetime. And, worse still, they had a reason, and one which you will find very embarrassing. Their Master had told them so. He shared, and indeed created, their delusion. He said in so many words, this generation shall not pass till all these things be done. And he was wrong. He clearly knew no more about the end of the world than anyone else.\" It is certainly the most embarrassing verse in the Bible.",
  "* But how can the characters in a play guess the plot? We are not the playwright, we are not the producer, we are not even the audience. We are on the stage. To play well the scenes in which we are \"on\" concerns us much more than to guess about the scenes that follow it.",
  "* I can imagine no man who will look with more horror on the End than a conscientious revolutionary who has, in a sense sincerely, been justifying cruelties and injustices inflicted on millions of his contemporaries by the benefits which he hopes to confer on future generations: generations who, as one terrible moment now reveals to him, were never going to exist. Then he will see the massacres, the faked trials, the deportations, to be all ineffaceably real, an essential part, his part, in the drama that has just ended: while the future Utopia had never been anything but a fantasy.",
  "* Christian Apocalyptic offers us no such hope. It does not even foretell, (which would be more tolerable to our habits of thought) a gradual decay. It foretells a sudden, violent end imposed from without; an extinguisher popped onto the candle, a brick flung at the gramophone, a curtain rung down on the play \u2014 \"Halt!\" ",
  "* The doctrine of the Second Coming teaches us that we do not and cannot know when the world drama will end. The curtain may be rung down at any moment: say, before you have finished reading this paragraph.",
  "* The doctrine of the Second Coming has failed, so far as we are concerned, if it does not make us realize that at every moment of every year in our lives Donnes question \"What if this present were the worlds last night?\" is equally relevant.",
  "* Frantic administration of panaceas to the world is certainly discouraged by the reflection that \"this present\" might be \"the worlds last night\"; sober work for the future, within the limits of ordinary morality and prudence, is not.",
  "* For what comes is Judgment: happy are those whom it finds labouring in their vocations, whether they were merely going out to feed the pigs or laying good plans to deliver humanity a hundred years hence from some great evil. The curtain has indeed now fallen. Those pigs will never in fact be fed, the great campaign against White Slavery or Governmental Tyranny will never in fact proceed to victory. No matter; you were at your post when the Inspection came.",
  "* I fancy that most people who think at all have done a great deal of their thinking in the first fourteen years.",
  "* The First [Friend] is the alter ego, the man who first reveals to you that you are not alone in the world by turning out (beyond hope) to share all your most secret delights. There is nothing to be overcome in making him your friend; he and you join like raindrops on a window. But the Second Friend is the man who disagrees with you about everything... Of course he shares your interests; otherwise he would not become your friend at all. But he has approached them all at a different angle. he has read all the right books but has got the wrong thing out of every one... How can he be so nearly right, and yet, invariably, just not right? He is as fascinating (and infuriating) as a woman.",
  "* The only non-Christians who seemed to me really to know anything were the Romantics; and a good many of them were dangerously tinged with something like religion, even at times with Christianity. The upshot of it all could nearly be expressed in a perversion of Rolands great line in the Chanson: Christians are wrong, but all the rest are bores.",
  "* Enough had been thought, and said, and felt, and imagined. It was about time that something should be done.",
  "* The Prodigal Son at least walked home on his own feet. But who can duly adore that Love which will open the high gates to a prodigal who is brought in kicking, struggling, resentful, and darting his eyes in every direction for a chance of escape?",
  "* I do not think the resemblance between the Christian and the merely imaginative experience is accidental. I think that all things, in their own way, reflect heavenly truth, the imagination not least. \"Reflect\" is the important word. This lower life of the imagination is not a beginning of, nor a step toward, the higher life of the spirit, merely an image.",
  "* The hardness of God is kinder than the softness of men, and His compulsion is our liberation.",
  "* Who are you? Nobody. Who is Porridge? THE MOST IMPORTANT PERSON THERE IS.",
  "* You must picture me alone in that room in Magdalen, night after night, feeling, whenever my mind lifted even for a second from my work, the steady, unrelenting approach of Him whom I so earnestly desired not to meet. That which I greatly feared had at last come upon me. In the Trinity Term of 1929 I gave in, and admitted that God was God, and knelt and prayed: perhaps, that night, the most dejected and reluctant convert in all England.",
  "* ... in such a matter he would never have been guided by his first thoughts (which would probably have been right) nor even by his twenty-first (which would have at least been explicable).  Beyond doubt he would have prolonged deliberation till his hundred-and-first; and they would be infallibly and invincibly wrong.  This is what always happens to the deliberations of a simple man who thinks he is a subtle one.",
  "* Eating and reading are two pleasures that combine admirably.",
  "* A young man who wishes to remain a sound Atheist cannot be too careful of his reading. There are traps everywhere... God is, if I may say it, very unscrupulous.",
  "* Nothing is yet in its true form.",
  "* I have always \u2014 at least, ever since I can remember \u2014 had a kind of longing for death.",
  "* \"Ah, Psyche,\" I said, \"have I made you so little happy as that?\"",
  "* \"No, no no,\" she said. \"You dont understand. Not that kind of longing. It was when I was happiest that I longed most. It was on happy days when we were up there on the hills, the three of us, with the wind and the sunshine \u2026 where you couldnt see Glome or the palace. Do you remember? The colour and the smell, and looking at the Grey Mountain in the distance? And because it was so beautiful, it set me longing, always longing. Somewhere else there must be more of it. Everything seemed to be saying, Psyche come! But I couldnt (not yet) come and I didnt know where I was to come to. It almost hurt me. I felt like a bird in a cage when the other birds of its kind are flying home.\"",
  "* The sweetest thing in all my life has been the longing \u2014 to reach the Mountain, to find the place where all the beauty came from \u2014 my country, the place where I ought to have been born. Do you think it all meant nothing, all the longing? The longing for home? For indeed it now feels not like going, but like going back.",
  "* \"Are the gods not just? Oh no, child.  What would become of us if they were?\"",
  "* Die before you Die. There is no chance after.",
  "* \"And yet, it was not, not now, she that really counted. Or if she counted (and, oh, gloriously she did) it was for another\u2019s sake. The earth and stars and sun, all that was or will be, existed for his sake. And he was coming. The most dreadful, the most beautiful, the only dread and beauty there is, was coming. The pillars on the far side of the pool flushed with his approach. I cast down my eyes.\"",
  "* Lightly men talk of saying what they mean. Often when he was teaching me to write in Greek the Fox would say, \"Child, to say the very thing you really mean, the whole of it, nothing more or less or other than what you really mean; thats the whole art and joy of words.\" A glib saying. When the time comes to you at which you will be forced at last to utter the speech which has lain at the center of your soul for years, which you have, all that time, idiot-like, been saying over and over, youll not talk about joy of words. I saw well why the gods do not speak to us openly, nor let us answer. Till that word can be dug out of us, why should they hear the babble that we think we mean? How can they meet us face to face till we have faces?",
  "* We are born helpless. As soon as we are fully conscious we discover loneliness. We need others physically, emotionally, intellectually; we need them if we are to know anything, even ourselves.",
  "* To love at all is to be vulnerable. Love anything, and your heart will certainly be wrung and possibly be broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact, you must give your heart to no one, not even to an animal. Wrap it carefully round with hobbies and little luxuries; avoid all entanglements; lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket \u2014 safe, dark, motionless, airless \u2014 it will change. It will not be broken; it will become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeemable. The alternative to tragedy, or at least to the risk of tragedy, is damnation. The only place outside of Heaven where you can be perfectly safe from all the dangers and perturbations of love is Hell.",
  "* Need-love cries to God from our poverty; Gift-love longs to serve, or even to suffer for, God; Appreciative love says: \"We give thanks to thee for thy great glory.\" Need-love says of a woman \"I cannot live without her\"; Gift-love longs to give her happiness, comfort, protection \u2014 if possible, wealth; Appreciative love gazes and holds its breath and is silent, rejoices that such a wonder should exist even if not for him, will not be wholly dejected by losing her, would rather have it so than never to have seen her at all.",
  "* Friendship is unnecessary, like philosophy, like art, like the universe itself (for God did not need to create). It has no survival value; rather it is one of those things which give value to survival.",
  "* Friendship arises out of mere companionship when two or more of the companions discover that they have in common some insight or interest or even taste which the others do not share and which, till that moment, each believed to be his own unique treasure (or burden). The typical expression of opening Friendship would be something like, \"What? You too? I thought I was the only one.\" ",
  "* Friendship, I have said, is born at the moment when one man says to another \"What! You too? I thought that no one but myself...\"",
  "* All that is not eternal is eternally out of date.",
  "* If we cannot \"practice the presence of God,\" it is something to practice the absence of God, to become increasingly aware of our unawareness till we feel like man who should stand beside a great cataract and hear no noise, or like a man in a story who looks in a mirror and finds no face there, or a man in a dream who stretches his hand to visible objects and gets no sensation of touch. To know that one is dreaming is to no longer be perfectly asleep. Bur for news of the fully waking world you must go to my betters.",
  "*Petitionary prayer is, nonetheless, both allowed and commanded to us: \u201cGive us our daily bread.\u201d And no doubt it raises a theoretical problem. Can we believe that God ever really modifies His action in response to the suggestions of men? For infinite wisdom does not need telling what is best, and infinite goodness needs no urging to do it. But neither does God need any of those things that are done by finite agents, whether living or inanimate. He could, if He chose, repair our bodies miraculously without food; or give us food without the aid of farmers, bakers, and butchers; or knowledge without the aid of learned men; or convert the heathen without missionaries. Instead, He allows soils and weather and animals and the muscles, minds, and wills of men to co-operate in the execution of His will. \u201cGod,\u201d said Pascal, \u201cinstituted prayer in order to lend to His creatures the dignity of causality.\u201d But not only prayer; whenever we act at all He lends us that dignity. It is not really stranger, nor less strange, that my prayers should affect the course of events than that my other actions should do so. They have not advised or changed Gods mind\u2014that is, His over-all purpose. But that purpose will be realized in different ways according to the actions, including the prayers, of His creatures.",
  "*Prayer is not a machine. It is not magic. It is not advice offered to God. Our act, when we pray, must not, any more than all our other acts, be separated from the continuous act of God Himself, in which alone all finite causes operate. It would be even worse to think of those who get what they pray for as a sort of court favorites, people who have influence with the throne. The refused prayer of Christ in Gethsemane is answer enough to that. And I dare not leave out the hard saying which I once heard from an experienced Christian: \u201cI have seen many striking answers to prayer and more than one that I thought miraculous. But they usually come at the beginning: before conversion, or soon after it. As the Christian life proceeds, they tend to be rarer. The refusals, too, are not only more frequent; they become more unmistakable, more emphatic.\u201d  Does God then forsake just those who serve Him best? Well, He who served Him best of all said, near His tortured death, \u201cWhy hast thou forsaken me?\u201d When God becomes man, that Man, of all others, is least comforted by God, at His greatest need. There is a mystery here which, even if I had the power, I might not have the courage to explore. Meanwhile, little people like you and me, if our prayers are sometimes granted, beyond all hope and probability, had better not draw hasty conclusions to our own advantage. If we were stronger, we might be less tenderly treated. If we were braver, we might be sent, with far less help, to defend far more desperate posts in the great battle.",
  "* No one ever told me that grief felt so like fear.",
  "* Her absence is no more emphatic in those places than anywhere else. Its not local at all. I suppose if one were forbidden all salt one wouldnt notice it much more in any one food more than another. Eating in general would be different, every day, at every meal. It is like that. The act of living is different all through. Her absence is like the sky, spread over everything.",
  "* It is hard to have patience with people who say There is no death or Death doesnt matter. There is death. And whatever is matters. And whatever happens has consequences, and it and they are irrevocable and irreversible. You might as well say that birth doesnt matter.",
  "* Is anything more certain than that in all those vast times and spaces, if I were allowed to search them, I should nowhere find her face, her voice, her touch? She died. She is dead. Is the word so difficult to learn?",
  "* You never know how much you really believe anything until its truth or falsehood becomes a matter of life and death to you. It is easy to you believe a rope to be strong and sound as long as you are merely using it to cord a box. But suppose that you had to hang by that rope over a precipice. Wouldnt you then first discover how much you really trusted it? ... Only a real risk tests the reality of a belief.",
  "* I want to have her back as an ingredient in the restoration of my past. Could I have wished her anything worse? Having got once through death, to come back and then, at some later date, have all her dying to do all over again? They call Stephen the first martyr. Hadnt Lazarus the rawer deal?",
  "* And then one babbles \u2014 if only I could bear it, or the worst of it, or any of it, instead of her. But one cant tell how serious that bid is, for nothing is staked on it. If it suddenly became a real possibility, then, for the first time, we should discover how seriously we had meant it. But is it ever allowed?  It was allowed to One, we are told, and I find I can now believe again, that He has done vicariously whatever can be done. He replies to our babble, you cannot and dare not. I could and dared.",
  "* It is arrogance in us to call frankness, fairness and chivalry \u201cmasculine\u201d when we see them in a woman; it is arrogance in them, to describe a mans sensitiveness or tact or tenderness as \u201cfeminine\u201d.",
  "* But perhaps I lack the gift. I see Ive described her as being like a sword. Thats true as far as it goes. But utterly inadequate by itself, and misleading. I ought to have said But also like a garden. Like a nest of gardens, wall within wall, hedge within hedge, more secret, more full of fragrant and fertile life, the further you explore.  And then, of her, and every created thing I praise, I should say in some way, in its unique way, like Him who made it.  Thus up from the garden to the Gardener, from the sword to the Smith. to the life-giving Life and the Beauty that makes beautiful.",
  "* Can a mortal ask questions which God finds unanswerable? Quite easily, I should think. All nonsense questions are unanswerable. How many hours are there in a mile? Is yellow square or round? Probably half the questions we ask \u2014 half our great theological and metaphysical problems \u2014 are like that.",
  "* I need Christ, not something that resembles Him.",
  "* But then again of course I know perfectly well that He cant be used as a road. If youre approaching Him not as the goal but as a road, not as the end but as a means, youre not really approaching Him at all.",
  "* Not my idea of God, but God.",
  "* When I lay these questions before God I get no answer. But a rather special sort of No answer. It is not the locked door. It is more like a silent, certainly not uncompassionate, gaze. As though He shook His head not in refusal but waiving the question. Like, Peace, child; you dont understand.",
  "* Its so much easier to pray for a bore than to go and see one.",
  "* What seem our worst prayers may really be, in Gods eyes, our best. Those, I mean, which are least supported by devotional feeling. For these may come from a deeper level than feeling. God sometimes seems to speak to us most intimately when he catches us, as it were, off our guard.",
  "* \u201cWe may ignore, but we can nowhere evade, the presence of God. The world is crowded with Him. He walks everywhere incognito.\u201d",
  "* The process of being brought up, however well it is done, cannot fail to offend.",
  "* I have known only one person in my life who claimed to have seen a ghost. It was a woman; and the interesting thing is that she disbelieved in the immortality of the soul before seeing the ghost and still disbelieves after having seen it. She thinks it was a hallucination. In other words, seeing is not believing. This is the first thing to get clear in talking about miracles.",
  "* The miracles in fact are a retelling in small letters of the very same story which is written across the whole world in letters too large for some of us to see. Of that larger script part is already visible, part is still unsolved. In other words, some of the miracles do locally what God has already done universally: others do locally what He has not yet done, but will do. In that sense, and from our human point of view, some are reminders and others prophecies.",
  "* I am to talk about Apologetics. Apologetics means of course Defence. The first question is \u2014 what do you propose to defend? Christianity, of course...",
  "* The standard of permanent Christianity must be kept clear in our minds and it is against that standard that we must test all contemporary thought. In fact, we must at all costs not move with the times.",
  "* If we cut up beasts simply because they cannot prevent us and because we are backing our own side in the struggle for existence, it is only logical to cut up imbeciles, criminals, enemies, or capitalists for the same reasons.",
  "* The victory of Dachau and Hiroshima mark the more recent achievements.",
  "* As image and apprehension are in an organic unity, so, for a Christian, are human body and human soul.",
  "* Of all tyrannies a tyranny sincerely exercised for the good of its victims may be the most oppressive. It may be better to live under robber barons than under omnipotent moral busybodies. The robber barons cruelty may sometimes sleep, his cupidity may at some point be satiated; but those who torment us for our own good will torment us without end for they do so with the approval of their own conscience. They may be more likely to go to Heaven yet at the same time likelier to make a Hell of earth. This very kindness stings with intolerable insult. To be \"cured\" against ones will and cured of states which we may not regard as disease is to be put on a level of those who have not yet reached the age of reason or those who never will; to be classed with infants, imbeciles, and domestic animals.",
  "* But why, (some ask), why, if you have a serious comment to make on the real life of men, must you do it by talking about a phantasmagoric never-never land of your own? Because, I take it, one of the main things the author wants to say is that the real life of men is of that mythical and heroic quality. One can see the principle at work in his characterization. Much that in a realistic work would be done by character delineation is here done simply by making the character an elf, a dwarf, or a hobbit. The imagined beings have their insides on the outside; they are visible souls. And Man as a whole, Man pitted against the universe, have we seen him at all till we see that he is like a hero in a fairy tale?",
  "* The Value of myth is that it takes all the things you know and restores to them the rich significance which has been hidden by the veil of familiarity.",
  "* If you are tired of the real landscape, look at it in a mirror. By putting bread, gold, horse, apple, or the very roads into a myth, we do not retreat from reality: we rediscover it. As long as the story lingers in our mind, the real things are more themselves. This book applies the treatment not only to bread or apple but to good and evil, to our endless perils, our anguish, and our joys. By dipping them in myth we see them more clearly.",
  "* You are never too old to set another goal, or to dream a new dream.",
  "* The best way to drive out the devil, if he will not yield to texts of Scripture, is to jeer and flout him, for he cannot bear scorn.",
  "** Thomas More, quoted at the beginning of The Screwtape Letters",
  "* You dont have a soul. You are a soul. You have a body.",
  "* Humility is not thinking less of yourself, its thinking of yourself less.",
  "* The homemaker has the ultimate career. All other careers exist for one purpose only\u2014and that is to support the ultimate career.",
  "* Integrity is doing the right thing, even when no one is watching."
]