[
  "* Human beings, having, above all creatures, received the power of reason... need to be aware where nature is unaware. Nature reaches its culmination in humans, but human consciousness has not its essence in itself or nature. ",
  "* I thank Providence who has guided my destinies, that I now live ; nay, that I live happier than a king of Persia. You know, fathers and fellow-citizens, that I am wholly occupied with this academical garden; that it is my Rhodus, or rather my Creator, which manifests itself in so many various modes, and demonstrate it to others.",
  "* Nature does not make any leaps. All plants show an affinity with those around them, according to their geographical location.",
  "* If the names are unknown knowledge of the things also perishes.",
  "* The observer of nature see, with admiration, that \"the whole world is full of the glory of God.\"",
  "* We say there are as many genera as there are similarly constituted fructifications of different natural species. ",
  "* The principle being accepted that all Species of one Genus have arisen from one mother through different fathers, it must be assumed ",
  "* We imagine that the Creator at the actual time of creation made only one single species for each natural order of plants, this species being different in habit and fructification from all the rest. That he made these mutually fertile, whence out of their progeny, fructification having been somewhat changed, Genera of natural classes have arisen as many in number as the different parents, and since this is not carried further, we regard this also as having been done by His Omnipotent hand directly in the beginning; thus all Genera were primeval and constituted a single Species. That as many Genera having arisen as there were individuals in the beginning, these plants in course of time became fertilised by others of different sort and thus arose Species until so many were produced as now exist... these Species were sometimes fertilised out of congeners, that is other Species of the same Genus, whence have arisen Varieties.",
  "* No one has any right to be angry with me, if I think fit to enumerate man among the quadrapeds. Man is neither a stone nor a plant, but an animal, for such is his way of living and moving; nor is he a worm, for then he would have only one foot; nor an insect, for then he would have antennae; nor a fish, for he has no fins; nor a bird, for he has no wings. Therefore, he is a quadraped, had a mouth like that of other quadrapeds, and finally four feet, on two of which he goes, and uses the other two for prehensive purposes.",
  "* As a natural historian according to the principles of science, up to the present time I have been not been able to discover any character by which man can be distinguished from the ape; for there are somewhere apes which are less hairy than man, erect in position, going just like him on two feet, and recalling the human species by the use they make of their hands and feet, to such an extent, that the less educated travellers have given them out as a kind of man.",
  "* I demand of you, and of the whole world, that you show me a generic character\u2014one that is according to generally accepted principles of classification, by which to distinguish between Man and Ape. I myself most assuredly know of none. ...But, if I had called man an ape, or vice versa, I should have fallen under the ban of all the ecclesiastics. It may be that as a naturalist I ought to have done so.",
  "* The Earths Creation is the glory of God, as seen from the works of Nature by Man alone.",
  "* Great is our God, and great is His power, and his strength is immeasurable",
  "* From my youth you have taught me, O God, and now I would like to proclaim Your Wonders",
  "* Your works are wonderful, O Lord! In the multitude of Thy virtues you measure those who despise you.",
  "* God infinite, omniscient and omnipotent, woke me up and I was amazed! I have read some clues through His created things, in all of which, is His will; even in the smallest things, and the most minute! How much wisdom! What an inscrutable perfection!",
  "*Variant translation: \"I saw the infinite, all-knowing and all-powerful God from behind as he went away, and I grew dizzy. I followed his footsteps over natures fields and saw everywhere an eternal wisdom and power, an inscrutable perfection.\" (As quoted in History of Science, by Peter Whitfield (2003), Scholastic Library Pub, p. 23.)",
  "* Every genus is natural, created as such in the beginning, hence not to be rashly split up or stuck together by whim or according to anyones theory.",
  "* Everything persecutes him; all things go against the guilty. No calamity by itself. Everything went badly with me, when I harboured revenge, but [I] changed, and left everything in Gods hands: since then all happily.",
  "* Theologically, man is to be understood as the final purpose of the creation; placed on the globe as the masterpiece of the works of Omnipotence, contemplating the world by virtue of sapient reason, forming conclusions by means of his senses, it is in His works that man recognizes the almighty Creator, the all-knowing, immeasurable and eternal God, learning to live morally under His rule, convinced of the complete justice of His Nemesis.",
  "* Everything the Almighty Creator has instituted on our globe occurs in such a wonderful order, that no thing subsists without the support of something else: The Globe itself, with all its Stones, Ore, and Gravel, is nourished and sustained by the Elements: Plants, Trees, Herbs, Grasses, and Mosses grow out of the Globe, and Animals eventually grow out of the plants. All of these are finally transformed back into their primary substances, the Earth feeding the Plant, the Plant the Worm, the Worm the Bird, and often the Bird the Beast of Prey; Then finally the Beast of Prey is consumed the Bird of Prey, the Bird of Prey by the Worm, the Worm by the Herb, the Herb by the Earth: Man indeed, who turns everything to his needs, is often consumed by the Beast, the Bird, or the Fish which preys on him, by the Worm or the Earth. It is thus that everything circulates.",
  "* The Lord himself hath led him with his own Almighty hand. He hath caused him to spring from a trunk without root, and planted him again in a distant and more delightful spot, and caused him to rise up to a considerable tree. Inspired him with an inclination for science so passionate as to become the most gratifying of all others. Given him all the means he could either wish for, or enjoy, of attaining the objects he had in view. Favoured him in such a manner that even the not obtaining of what he wished for, ultimately turned out to his great advantage. Caused him to be received into favour by the \"M\u0153cenates Scientiarum\"; by the greatest men in the kingdom; and by the Royal Family. Given him an advantageous and honourable post, the very one that, above all others in the world, he had wished for. Given him the wife for whom he most wished, and who managed his household affairs whilst he was engaged in laborious studies. Given him children who have turned out good and virtuous. Given him a son for his successor in office. Given him the largest collection of plants that ever existed in the world, and his greatest delight. Given him lands and other property, so that though there has been nothing superfluous, nothing has he wanted. Honoured him with the titles of Archiater, Knight, Nobleman, and with Distinction in the learned world. Protected him from fire. Preserved his life above 60 years. Permitted him to visit his secret council-chambers. Permitted him to see more of the creation than any mortal before him. Given him greater knowledge of natural history than any one had hitherto acquired. The Lord hath been with him whithersoever he hath walked, and hath cut off all his enemies from before him, and hath made him a name, like the name of the great men that are in the earth. 1 Chron. xvn. 8."
]