[
  "* Whoever imposes severe punishment becomes repulsive to the people; while he who awards mild punishment becomes contemptible. But whoever imposes punishment as deserved becomes respectable. For punishment when awarded with due consideration, makes the people devoted to righteousness and to works productive of wealth and enjoyment; while punishment, when ill-awarded under the influence of greed and anger or owing to ignorance, excites fury even among hermits and ascetics dwelling in forests, not to speak of householders.",
  "* If a king is energetic, his subjects will be equally energetic. If he is reckless, they will not only be reckless likewise, but also eat into his works. Besides, a reckless king will easily fall into the hands of his enemies. Hence the king shall ever be wakeful.",
  "* All urgent calls he shall hear at once, but never put off; for when postponed, they will prove too hard or impossible to accomplish.",
  "* The king who is situated anywhere immediately on the circumference of the conquerors territory is termed the enemy.The king who is likewise situated close to the enemy, but separated from the conqueror only by the enemy, is termed the friend (of the conqueror).",
  "*The area extending from the Himalayas in the north to the sea and a thousand yojanas wide from east to west is the area of operation of the King-Emperor.",
  "*Ravana, unwilling under the influence of vanity to restore a strangers wife, as well as Duryodhana to part with a portion of his kingdom.",
  "** Righteousness is the root of happiness.",
  "** The contented have no fear of death.",
  "** The wicked have no friends.",
  "* [Arvind] Sharma speculates that a reason for Indias downfall was the eclipse of the category of Chakravarti as mentionned in the Arthashastra. A Chakravartis domain was from ocean to ocean; he was above all the other kings who were local. He feels that the Arthashastra at some point ceased to be taught for learning realpolitik. There appears to have been an attack on it by liberal passivism. It is ironic, he says, that during British rule the Arthashastra text had disappeared until a copy suddenly surfaced with a farmer in Kerala in the early twentieth century...  Sharma recommends introducing the study of Arthashastra in all schools in all languages."
]