[
  "* He that in his Studies wholly applies himself to Labour and Exercise, and neglects Meditation, loses his time: And he that only applies himself to Meditation, and neglects Labour and Exercise, does only wander and lose himself.",
  "* Men do not stumble over mountains, but over molehills",
  "* Man has three ways of acting wisely. First, on meditation; that is the noblest. Secondly, on imitation; that is the easiest. Thirdly, on experience; that is the bitterest.",
  "* Well governed, poverty, ill governed, wealth a disgrace.",
  "* To know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge.",
  "* It is not truth that makes man great, but man that makes truth great.",
  "* It is more shameful to distrust our friends than to be deceived by them.",
  "* The more man meditates upon good thoughts, the better will be his world and the world at large.",
  "** Isnt it a pleasure to study and practice what you have learned? Isnt it also great when friends visit from distant places? If one remains not annoyed when he is not understood by people around him, isnt he a sage?",
  "** Fine words and an insinuating appearance are seldom associated with true virtue.",
  "** I am not bothered by the fact that I am not understood. I am bothered when I do not know others.",
  "** Be loyal and trustworthy. Do not befriend anyone who is lower than yourself in this regard. When making a mistake, do not be afraid to correct it.",
  "** If you would govern a state of a thousand chariots (a small-to-middle-size state), you must pay strict attention to business, be true to your word, be economical in expenditure and love the people. You should use them according to the seasons (i.e. You should not enlist farmers during seeding or harvest time).",
  "** When the Superior Man (Tao and thereby corrects himself. This is the kind of person of whom you can say, \"he loves learning.\"",
  "** The Master said, \"He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all the stars turn towards it.\"",
  "** At fifteen my heart was set on learning; at thirty I stood firm; at forty I had no more doubts; at fifty I knew the will of heaven; at sixty my ear was obedient; at seventy I could follow my hearts desire without overstepping the boundaries of what was right.",
  "** Reviewing what you have learned and learning anew, you are fit to be a teacher.",
  "** The Superior Man is all-embracing and not partial. The inferior man is partial and not all-embracing.",
  "** To study and not think is a waste. To think and not study is dangerous.",
  "** To throw oneself into strange teachings is quite dangerous.",
  "** You [a disciple], shall I teach you about knowledge? What you know, you know, what you dont know, you dont know. This is true knowledge.",
  "** See a persons means (of getting things). Observe his motives. Examine that in which he rests. How can a person conceal his character?",
  "** Listen widely to remove your doubts and be careful when speaking about the rest and your mistakes will be few. See much and get rid of what is dangerous and be careful in acting on the rest and your causes for regret will be few. Speaking without fault, acting without causing regret: upgrading consists in this.",
  "** To worship to other than ones own ancestral spirits is brown-nosing. If you see what is right and fail to act on it, you lack courage.  Variant: To see what is right, and not to do it, is want of courage or of principle.",
  "** If a man has no humaneness what can his propriety be like? If a man has no humaneness what can his happiness be like?",
  "** The Superior Man has nothing to compete for. But if he must compete, he does it in an archery match, wherein he ascends to his position, bowing in deference. Descending, he drinks (or has [the winner] drink) the ritual cup.",
  "** The Yin based its propriety on that of the Xia, and what it added and subtracted is knowable. The Zhou has based its propriety on that of the Shang and what it added and subtracted is knowable. In this way, what continues from the Chou, even if 100 generations hence, is knowable.",
  "** Being in humaneness is good. If we select other goodness and thus are far apart from humaneness, how can we be the wise?",
  "** If I hear the Way [of truth] in the morning, I am content even to die in that evening.",
  "** When we see men of worth, we should think of equaling them; when we see men of a contrary character, we should turn inwards and examine ourselves.",
  "** When your father is alive, observe his will. When your father is dead observe his former actions. If, for three years [after the death of your father] you do not change from the ways of your father, you can be called a real son (xi\u00e0o/hsiao).",
  "** The cautious seldom err.",
  "** The superior man is modest in his speech, but exceeds in his actions.",
  "** Virtue (or the man of virtue) is not left to stand alone. He who practices it will have neighbors.",
  "** The superior man thinks of virtue; the small man thinks of comfort. The superior man thinks of the sanctions of law; the small man thinks of favors which he may receive.",
  "* I am not concerned that I have no place; I am concerned how I may fit myself for one. I am not concerned that I am not known; I seek to be worthy to be known.",
  "** Chi Wan thought thrice, and then acted. When the Master was informed of it, he said, \"Twice may do.\"",
  "** They who know the truth are not equal to those who love it, and they who love it are not equal to those who delight in it.",
  "** To those whose talents are above mediocrity, the highest subjects may be announced. To those who are below mediocrity, the highest subjects may not be announced.",
  "** The wise find pleasure in water; the virtuous find pleasure in hills. The wise are active; the virtuous are tranquil. The wise are joyful; the virtuous are long-lived.",
  "** To give ones self earnestly to the duties due to men, and, while respecting spiritual beings, to keep aloof from them, may be called wisdom.",
  "** The superior man, extensively studying all learning, and keeping himself under the restraint of the rules of propriety, may thus likewise not overstep what is right.",
  "** The man of virtue makes the difficulty to be overcome his first business, and success only a subsequent consideration: this may be called perfect virtue.",
  "* To rank the effort above the prize may be called love.",
  "* I do not open up the truth to one who is not eager to get knowledge, nor help out any one who is not anxious to explain himself. When I have presented one corner of a subject to any one, and he cannot from it learn the other three, I do not repeat my lesson.",
  "** When I walk along with two others, they may serve me as my teachers. I will select their good qualities and follow them, their bad qualities and avoid them.",
  "** When a country is well governed, poverty and a mean condition are things to be ashamed of. When a country is ill governed, riches and honor are things to be ashamed of.",
  "* A mans character is formed by the Odes, developed by the Rites and perfected by music.",
  "** Within the four seas, all men are brothers.",
  "** If names be not correct, language is not in accordance with the truth of things.",
  "**By nature, men are nearly alike; by practice, they get to be wide apart.",
  "** He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place when all the stars are rotating about it.",
  "** The superior man is satisfied and composed; the mean man is always full of distress.",
  "** When you serve your mother and father it is okay to try to correct them once in a while. But if you see that they are not going to listen to you, keep your respect for them and dont distance yourself from them. Work without complaining.",
  "** A young man should serve his parents at home and be respectful to elders outside his home. He should be earnest and truthful, loving all, but become intimate with humaneness. After doing this, if he has energy to spare, he can study literature and the arts.",
  "** If the Superior Man is not serious, then he will not inspire awe in others. If he is not learned, then he will not be on firm ground. He takes loyalty and good faith to be of primary importance, and has no friends who are not of equal (moral) caliber. When he makes a mistake, he doesnt hesitate to correct it.",
  "** The silent treasuring up of knowledge; learning without satiety; and instructing others without being wearied: which one of these things belongs to me?",
  "** Leaving virtue without proper cultivation; not thoroughly discussing what is learned; not being able to move towards righteousness of which a knowledge is gained; and not being able to change what is not good: \u2014 these are the things which occasion me solicitude.",
  "** The superior man, when resting in safety, does not forget that danger may come. When in a state of security he does not forget the possibility of ruin. When all is orderly, he does not forget that disorder may come. Thus his person is not endangered, and his States and all their clans are preserved.",
  "** What you do not want done to yourself, do not do to others.",
  "** Recompense hatred with justice, and recompense kindness with kindness. [http://books.google.com/books?id=Hr9IVO9MhXQC&q=%22Recompense+injury+with+justice+and+recompense+kindness+with+kindness%22&pg=PA80#v=onepage]",
  "* Learning without thought is labor lost; thought without learning is perilous.",
  "* There is the love of knowing without the love of learning; the beclouding here leads to dissipation of mind.",
  "* Of all people, girls and servants are the most difficult to behave to. If you are familiar with them, they lose their humility. If you maintain a reserve towards them, they are discontented.",
  "* A man living without conflicts, as if he never lives at all.",
  "* A scholar who loves comfort is not worthy of the name.",
  "* The man of virtue makes the difficulty to be overcome his first business, and success only a subsequent consideration.",
  "* When you have faults, do not fear to abandon them.",
  "* The superior man understands what is right; the inferior man understands what will sell.",
  "* Guide the people by law, subdue them by punishment; they may shun crime, but will be void of shame. Guide them by example, subdue them by courtesy; they will learn shame, and come to be good.",
  "*Only after Winter comes do we know that the pine and the cypress are the last to fade.",
  "* It is soft, smooth and shining\u2014like intelligence. Its edges seem sharp but do not cut\u2014like justice. It hangs down to the ground\u2014like humility. When struck, it gives a clear, ringing sound\u2014like music. The strains in it are not hidden and add to its beauty\u2014like truthfulness. What imagination!",
  "* What Heaven has conferred is called The Nature; an accordance with this nature is called The Path of duty; the regulation of this path is called Instruction. The path may not be left for an instant. If it could be left, it would not be the path. On this account, the superior man does not wait till he sees things, to be cautious, nor till he hears things, to be apprehensive.",
  "* There is nothing more visible than what is secret, and nothing more manifest than what is minute. Therefore the superior man is watchful over himself, when he is alone.",
  "* Let the states of equilibrium and harmony exist in perfection, and a happy order will prevail throughout heaven and earth, and all things will be nourished and flourish.",
  "* Perfect is the virtue which is according to the Mean! Rare have they long been among the people, who could practice it!",
  "* I know how it is that the path of the Mean is not walked in \u2014 The knowing go beyond it, and the stupid do not come up to it. I know how it is that the path of the Mean is not understood \u2014 The men of talents and virtue go beyond it, and the worthless do not come up to it.",
  "* There is no body but eats and drinks. But they are few who can distinguish flavors.",
  "* Men all say, \"We are wise\"; but being driven forward and taken in a net, a trap, or a pitfall, they know not how to escape. Men all say, \"We are wise\"; but happening to choose the course of the Mean, they are not able to keep it for a round month.",
  "* The kingdom, its states, and its families, may be perfectly ruled; dignities and emoluments may be declined; naked weapons may be trampled under the feet; but the course of the Mean cannot be attained to.",
  "* To show forbearance and gentleness in teaching others; and not to revenge unreasonable conduct \u2014 this is the energy of southern regions, and the good man makes it his study. To lie under arms; and meet death without regret \u2014 this is the energy of northern regions, and the forceful make it their study. Therefore, the superior man cultivates a friendly harmony, without being weak \u2014 How firm is he in his energy! He stands erect in the middle, without inclining to either side \u2014 How firm is he in his energy! When good principles prevail in the government of his country, he does not change from what he was in retirement. How firm is he in his energy! When bad principles prevail in the country, he maintains his course to death without changing \u2014 How firm is he in his energy!",
  "* The superior man accords with the course of the Mean. Though he may be all unknown, unregarded by the world, he feels no regret \u2014 It is only the sage who is able for this.",
  "* The way which the superior man pursues, reaches wide and far, and yet is secret. Common men and women, however ignorant, may intermeddle with the knowledge of it; yet in its utmost reaches, there is that which even the sage does not know. Common men and women, however much below the ordinary standard of character, can carry it into practice; yet in its utmost reaches, there is that which even the sage is not able to carry into practice. Great as heaven and earth are, men still find some things in them with which to be dissatisfied. Thus it is that, were the superior man to speak of his way in all its greatness, nothing in the world would be found able to embrace it, and were he to speak of it in its minuteness, nothing in the world would be found able to split it.",
  "* The way of the superior man may be found, in its simple elements, in the intercourse of common men and women; but in its utmost reaches, it shines brightly through Heaven and Earth.",
  "* The Path is not far from man. When men try to pursue a course, which is far from the common indications of consciousness, this course cannot be considered The Path.",
  "* The superior man governs men, according to their nature, with what is proper to them, and as soon as they change what is wrong, he stops.",
  "* When one cultivates to the utmost the principles of his nature, and exercises them on the principle of reciprocity, he is not far from the path. What you do not like when done to yourself, do not do to others.",
  "* Earnest in practicing the ordinary virtues, and careful in speaking about them, if, in his practice, he has anything defective, the superior man dares not but exert himself; and if, in his words, he has any excess, he dares not allow himself such license. Thus his words have respect to his actions, and his actions have respect to his words; is it not just an entire sincerity which marks the superior man?",
  "* The superior man does what is proper to the station in which he is; he does not desire to go beyond this. In a position of wealth and honor, he does what is proper to a position of wealth and honor. In a poor and low position, he does what is proper to a poor and low position. Situated among barbarous tribes, he does what is proper to a situation among barbarous tribes. In a position of sorrow and difficulty, he does what is proper to a position of sorrow and difficulty. The superior man can find himself in no situation in which he is not himself. In a high situation, he does not treat with contempt his inferiors. In a low situation, he does not court the favor of his superiors. He rectifies himself, and seeks for nothing from others, so that he has no dissatisfactions. He does not murmur against Heaven, nor grumble against men. Thus it is that the superior man is quiet and calm, waiting for the appointments of Heaven, while the mean man walks in dangerous paths, looking for lucky occurrences.",
  "* In archery we have something like the way of the superior man. When the archer misses the center of the target, he turns round and seeks for the cause of his failure in himself.",
  "* The way of the superior man may be compared to what takes place in traveling, when to go to a distance we must first traverse the space that is near, and in ascending a height, when we must begin from the lower ground.",
  "* How abundantly do spiritual beings display the powers that belong to them! We look for them, but do not see them; we listen to, but do not hear them; yet they enter into all things, and there is nothing without them.",
  "* Heaven, in the production of things, is sure to be bountiful to them, according to their qualities. Hence the tree that is flourishing, it nourishes, while that which is ready to fall, it overthrows.",
  "* The administration of government lies in getting proper men. Such men are to be got by means of the rulers own character. That character is to be cultivated by his treading in the ways of duty. And the treading those ways of duty is to be cultivated by the cherishing of benevolence.",
  "* Benevolence is the characteristic element of humanity.",
  "* To be fond of learning is to be near to knowledge. To practice with vigor is to be near to magnanimity. To possess the feeling of shame is to be near to energy.",
  "* By the rulers cultivation of his own character, the duties of universal obligation are set forth. By honoring men of virtue and talents, he is preserved from errors of judgment.",
  "* In all things success depends on previous preparation, and without such previous preparation there is sure to be failure. If what is to be spoken be previously determined, there will be no stumbling. If affairs be previously determined, there will be no difficulty with them. If ones actions have been previously determined, there will be no sorrow in connection with them. If principles of conduct have been previously determined, the practice of them will be inexhaustible.",
  "* Sincerity is the way of Heaven. The attainment of sincerity is the way of men. He who possesses sincerity is he who, without an effort, hits what is right, and apprehends, without the exercise of thought \u2014 he is the sage who naturally and easily embodies the right way. He who attains to sincerity is he who chooses what is good, and firmly holds it fast. To this attainment there are requisite the extensive study of what is good, accurate inquiry about it, careful reflection on it, the clear discrimination of it, and the earnest practice of it.",
  "* The superior man, while there is anything he has not studied, or while in what he has studied there is anything he cannot understand, Will not intermit his labor. While there is anything he has not inquired about, or anything in what he has inquired about which he does not know, he will not intermit his labor. While there is anything which he has not reflected on, or anything in what he has reflected on which he does not apprehend, he will not intermit his labor. While there is anything which he has not discriminated or his discrimination is not clear, he will not intermit his labor. If there be anything which he has not practiced, or his practice fails in earnestness, he will not intermit his labor. If another man succeed by one effort, he will use a hundred efforts. If another man succeed by ten efforts, he will use a thousand. Let a man proceed in this way, and, though dull, he will surely become intelligent; though weak, he will surely become strong.",
  "* When we have intelligence resulting from sincerity, this condition is to be ascribed to nature; when we have sincerity resulting from intelligence, this condition is to be ascribed to instruction. But given the sincerity, and there shall be the intelligence; given the intelligence, and there shall be the sincerity.",
  "* It is only he who is possessed of the most complete sincerity that can exist under heaven, who can give its full development to his nature. Able to give its full development to his own nature, he can do the same to the nature of other men. Able to give its full development to the nature of other men, he can give their full development to the natures of animals and things. Able to give their full development to the natures of creatures and things, he can assist the transforming and nourishing powers of Heaven and Earth. Able to assist the transforming and nourishing powers of Heaven and Earth, he may with Heaven and Earth form a ternion.",
  "* Sincerity becomes apparent. From being apparent, it becomes manifest. From being manifest, it becomes brilliant. Brilliant, it affects others. Affecting others, they are changed by it. Changed by it, they are transformed. It is only he who is possessed of the most complete sincerity that can exist under heaven, who can transform.",
  "* It is characteristic of the most entire sincerity to be able to foreknow. When a nation or family is about to flourish, there are sure to be happy omens; and when it is about to perish, there are sure to be unlucky omens.",
  "* Sincerity is that whereby self-completion is effected, and its way is that by which man must direct himself.",
  "* Sincerity is the end and beginning of things; without sincerity there would be nothing. On this account, the superior man regards the attainment of sincerity as the most excellent thing.",
  "* To entire sincerity there belongs ceaselessness. Not ceasing, it continues long. Continuing long, it evidences itself. Evidencing itself, it reaches far. Reaching far, it becomes large and substantial. Large and substantial, it becomes high and brilliant. Large and substantial; this is how it contains all things. High and brilliant; this is how it overspreads all things. Reaching far and continuing long; this is how it perfects all things. So large and substantial, the individual possessing it is the co-equal of Earth. So high and brilliant, it makes him the co-equal of Heaven. So far-reaching and long-continuing, it makes him infinite. Such being its nature, without any display, it becomes manifested; without any movement, it produces changes; and without any effort, it accomplishes its ends.",
  "* The way of Heaven and Earth may be completely declared in one sentence: They are without any doubleness, and so they produce things in a manner that is unfathomable.",
  "* How great is the path proper to the Sage! Like overflowing water, it sends forth and nourishes all things, and rises up to the height of heaven. All-complete is its greatness! It embraces the three hundred rules of ceremony, and the three thousand rules of demeanor. It waits for the proper man, and then it is trodden. Hence it is said, \"Only by perfect virtue can the perfect path, in all its courses, be made a fact.\" ",
  "* The superior man honors his virtuous nature, and maintains constant inquiry and study, seeking to carry it out to its breadth and greatness, so as to omit none of the more exquisite and minute points which it embraces, and to raise it to its greatest height and brilliancy, so as to pursue the course of the Mean. He cherishes his old knowledge, and is continually acquiring new. He exerts an honest, generous earnestness, in the esteem and practice of all propriety. Thus, when occupying a high situation he is not proud, and in a low situation he is not insubordinate. When the kingdom is well governed, he is sure by his words to rise; and when it is ill governed, he is sure by his silence to command forbearance to himself.",
  "* To no one but the Son of Heaven does it belong to order ceremonies, to fix the measures, and to determine the written characters.",
  "* The institutions of the Ruler are rooted in his own character and conduct, and sufficient attestation of them is given by the masses of the people. He examines them by comparison with those of the three kings, and finds them without mistake. He sets them up before Heaven and Earth, and finds nothing in them contrary to their mode of operation. He presents himself with them before spiritual beings, and no doubts about them arise. He is prepared to wait for the rise of a sage a hundred ages after, and has no misgivings. His presenting himself with his institutions before spiritual beings, without any doubts arising about them, shows that he knows Heaven. His being prepared, without any misgivings, to wait for the rise of a sage a hundred ages after, shows that he knows men.",
  "* All things are nourished together without their injuring one another. The courses of the seasons, and of the sun and moon, are pursued without any collision among them. The smaller energies are like river currents; the greater energies are seen in mighty transformations. It is this which makes heaven and earth so great.",
  "* It is only he, possessed of all sagely qualities that can exist under heaven, who shows himself quick in apprehension, clear in discernment, of far-reaching intelligence, and all-embracing knowledge, fitted to exercise rule; magnanimous, generous, benign, and mild, fitted to exercise forbearance; impulsive, energetic, firm, and enduring, fitted to maintain a firm hold; self-adjusted, grave, never swerving from the Mean, and correct, fitted to command reverence; accomplished, distinctive, concentrative, and searching, fitted to exercise discrimination. All-embracing is he and vast, deep and active as a fountain, sending forth in their due season his virtues. All-embracing and vast, he is like Heaven. Deep and active as a fountain, he is like the abyss. He is seen, and the people all reverence him; he speaks, and the people all believe him; he acts, and the people all are pleased with him.",
  "* It is only the individual possessed of the most entire sincerity that can exist under Heaven, who can adjust the great invariable relations of mankind, establish the great fundamental virtues of humanity, and know the transforming and nurturing operations of Heaven and Earth; \u2014 shall this individual have any being or anything beyond himself on which he depends? Call him man in his ideal, how earnest is he! Call him an abyss, how deep is he! Call him Heaven, how vast is he! Who can know him, but he who is indeed quick in apprehension, clear in discernment, of far-reaching intelligence, and all-embracing knowledge, possessing all Heavenly virtue?",
  "* It is the way of the superior man to prefer the concealment of his virtue, while it daily becomes more illustrious, and it is the way of the mean man to seek notoriety, while he daily goes more and more to ruin. It is characteristic of the superior man, appearing insipid, yet never to produce satiety; while showing a simple negligence, yet to have his accomplishments recognized; while seemingly plain, yet to be discriminating. He knows how what is distant lies in what is near. He knows where the wind proceeds from. He knows how what is minute becomes manifested. Such a one, we may be sure, will enter into virtue.",
  "* The superior man examines his heart, that there may be nothing wrong there, and that he may have no cause for dissatisfaction with himself. That wherein the superior man cannot be equaled is simply this \u2014 his work which other men cannot see.",
  "* The superior man, even when he is not moving, has a feeling of reverence, and while he speaks not, he has the feeling of truthfulness.",
  "* It is said in the Book of Poetry, \"In silence is the offering presented, and the spirit approached to; there is not the slightest contention.\" Therefore the superior man does not use rewards, and the people are stimulated to virtue. He does not show anger, and the people are awed more than by hatchets and battle-axes.",
  "* Among the appliances to transform the people, sound and appearances are but trivial influences.",
  "* What the great learning teaches, is to illustrate illustrious virtue; to renovate the people; and to rest in the highest excellence.  The point where to rest being known, the object of pursuit is then determined; and, that being determined, a calm unperturbedness may be attained to. To that calmness there will succeed a tranquil repose. In that repose there may be careful deliberation, and that deliberation will be followed by the attainment of the desired end.",
  "* Things have their root and their branches. Affairs have their end and their beginning. To know what is first and what is last will lead near to what is taught in the Great Learning.",
  "* The ancients who wished to illustrate illustrious virtue throughout the Kingdom, first ordered well their own states. Wishing to order well their states, they first regulated their families. Wishing to regulate their families, they first cultivated their persons. Wishing to cultivate their persons, they first rectified their hearts. Wishing to rectify their hearts, they first sought to be sincere in their thoughts. Wishing to be sincere in their thoughts, they first extended to the utmost their knowledge. Such extension of knowledge lay in the investigation of things. Things being investigated, knowledge became complete. Their knowledge being complete, their thoughts were sincere. Their thoughts being sincere, their hearts were then rectified. Their hearts being rectified, their persons were cultivated. Their persons being cultivated, their families were regulated. Their families being regulated, their states were rightly governed. Their states being rightly governed, the whole kingdom was made tranquil and happy. From the Son of Heaven down to the mass of the people, all must consider the cultivation of the person the root of everything besides.",
  "*When the Great Dao (Tao, perfect order) prevails, the world is like a Commonwealth State shared by all, not a dictatorship.",
  "*Virtuous, worthy, wise and capable people are chosen as leaders.",
  "*Honesty and trust are promoted, and good neighborliness cultivated.",
  "*All people respect and love their own parents and children, as well as the parents and children of others.",
  "*The aged are cared for until death; adults are employed in jobs that make full use of their abilities; and children are nourished, educated, and fostered;...orphans... the disabled and the diseased are all well taken care of.... ",
  "*They hate not to make use of their abilities... they do not necessarily work for their own self-interest.",
  "*Thus intrigues and conspiracies do not arise, and thievery and robbery do not occur; therefore doors need never be locked.",
  "*This is the ideal world \u2013 a perfect world of equality, fraternity, harmony, welfare, and justice. ",
  "* The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.",
  "*I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand.",
  "* Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without.",
  "* Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves.",
  "* No matter how busy you may think you are, you must find time for reading, or surrender yourself to self-chosen ignorance.",
  "* Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.",
  "* Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.",
  "* A hundred girls arent worth a single testicle."
]