[
  "* I focus on popular culture because I focus on those areas where black humanity is most powerfully expressed, where black people have been able to articulate their sense of the world in a profound manner. And I see this primarily in popular culture. Why not in highbrow culture? Because the access has been so difficult. Why not in more academic forms? Because academic exclusion has been the rule for so long for large numbers of black people that black culture, for me, becomes a search for where black people have left their imprint and fundamentally made a difference in terms of how certain art forms are understood. This is currently in popular culture. And it has been primarily in music, religion, visual arts and fashion.",
  "* In situations of sparse resources along with degraded self-images and depoliticized sensibilities, one avenue for poor people is in existential rebellion and anarchic expression. The capacity to produce social chaos is the last resort of desperate people.",
  "* The Enlightenment worldview held by Du Bois is ultimately inadequate, and, in many ways, antiquated, for our time. The tragic plight and absurd predicament of Africans here and abroad requires a more profound interpretation of the human condition \u2014 one that goes beyond the false dichotomies of expert knowledge vs. mass ignorance, individual autonomy vs. dogmatic authority, and self-mastery vs. intolerant tradition.",
  "* To be an means to vision of the world that puts into the limelight the social misery that is usually hidden or concealed by the dominant viewpoints of a society. \"Intellectual\" in that sense simply means those who are willing to reflect critically upon themselves as well as upon the larger society and to ascertain whether there is some possibility of amelioration and betterment.",
  "* Analytical philosophy was very interesting. It always struck me as being very interesting and full of tremendous intellectual curiosities. It is wonderful to see the mind at work in such an intense manner, but, for me, it was still too far removed from my own issues.",
  "* The authority of science \u2026 promotes and encourages the activity of observing, comparing, measuring and ordering the physical characteristics of human bodies.\u2026 Cartesian epistemology and classical ideals produced forms of rationality, scientificity and objectivity that, though efficacious in the quest for truth and knowledge, prohibited the intelligibility and legitimacy of black equality\u2026. In fact, to \"think\" such an idea was to be deemed irrational, barbaric or mad.",
  "* I remind young people everywhere I go, one of the worst things the older generation did was to tell them for twenty-five years \"Be successful, be successful, be successful\" as opposed to \"Be great, be great, be great\".  Theres a qualitative difference.",
  "* Free-market fundamentalism trivializes the concern for public interest. It puts fear and insecurity in the hearts of anxiety-ridden workers. It also makes money-driven, poll-obsessed elected officials deferential to corporate goals of profit \u2013 often at the cost of the common good. \u2026 The free-market fundamentalism that prevails in the United States today promotes the pervasive sleepwalking of the populace. People see that the false prophets are handsomely rewarded \u2014 with money, status and access to more power. \u2026 We are experiencing the sad gangsterization of America \u2014 an unbridled grasp at power, wealth and status.",
  "* To many, our politics of self-interest and catering to narrow special interests is so dominant that so many ask themselves: Why political discourse}} is so formulaic, so tailored into poll-driven, focus-group-approved slogans that dont really say anything substantive or strike at the core of our lived experience; the lack of authenticity of discourse\u2014and the underlying lack of gravitas, of penetrating insight and wisdom on the part of politicians\u2014is numbing. But we must keep in mind that the disgust so many feel comes from a deep desire to hear more authentic expressions of insights about our lives and more genuine commitment to improving them. Many of us long for expressions of real concern both about the pain of our individual lives and about the elite constituencies. We long for politics that in not about winning a political game but about producing better lives.",
  "* You cant lead the people if you dont love the people. You cant save the people, if you dont serve the people.",
  "* Justice is what love looks like in public.",
  "* From whence are these \"rights of individuals\" derived, and why should we care? Unless we presume the existence of some greater power that determines what is good, isnt it arbitrary to posit that human survival is more important than private property rights, an equally artificially construed concept? Isnt it arbitrary to assume that some sort of equality is preferable to a system where, say, the poor are assumed to have bad karma? If these rights of individuals are derived only from shared humanity, then do individuals (a thoroughly meaningless term, by the way), begin to lose them when they act inhumanely? And isnt it totally arbitrary to grant rights to humans rather than other creatures anyway?",
  "* The rule of Big Money and its attendant culture of cupidity and mendacity has so poisoned our hearts, minds and souls that a dominant self-righteous neoliberal soulcraft of smartness, dollars and bombs thrives with little opposition. ",
  "*Well, as you know, I was blessed to do over a hundred events for my dear brother [Bernie Sanders]. And this is the first time I\u2019ve had a chance to publicly endorse him again, but yes, indeed. I\u2019ll be in his corner that we\u2019re going to win this time. And it has to do with the Martin Luther King like criteria of assessing a candidate namely the issues of militarism, poverty, materialism, and racism, xenophobia in all of its forms that includes any kind of racism as you know against black people, brown people, yellow people, anybody, Arabs, Muslims, Jews, Palestinians, Kashmirians, Tibetans and so forth. So that there\u2019s no doubt that the my dear brother Bernie stands shoulders above any of the other candidates running in the Democratic primary when it comes to that Martin Luther King-like standards or criteria.",
  "*The most taboo issue on U.S. campuses these days, in many instances, has to do with the vicious Israeli occupation of precious Palestinians. It\u2019s very difficult to have a respectful, robust conversation about that. And I am unequivocal in my solidarity with Palestinian brothers and sisters... I\u2019m not in any way going to stop talking about the Palestinian plight and predicament.",
  "*Harvard now, I think, suffers from a kind of self-idolatry, that it needs to be critical of itself in order to grow. And again, if you can be in contact with the best of its past, then it\u2019s got a chance. But if it just remains well adjusted to the status quo, generating careerist and opportunist students rather than critically oriented students who have a heart and soul, concerned about suffering here and around the world \u2014 then Harvard has a chance.  I\u2019m not giving up on Harvard, but I am making my way to New York.",
  "*It\u2019s time for me to go back to the great Union Theological Seminary. That\u2019s my institutional home, my brother. I can stretch out and try to be a truth teller and bear witness, still learn and listen, but also be in the middle of the Big Apple. Nothing like it... Union Theological Seminary means so much to me, because in that context I can be the full, free Black man, the Jesus-loving, free Black man, fundamentally committed to focusing on the oppressed around the world.",
  "*With a few glorious and glaring exceptions, the shadow of Jim Crow was cast in its new glittering form expressed in the language of superficial diversity... The disarray of a scattered curriculum, the disenchantment of talented yet deferential faculty, and the disorientation of precious students loom large... To witness a faculty enthusiastically support a candidate for tenure then timidly defer to a rejection based on the Harvard administration\u2019s hostility to the Palestinian cause was disgusting... We all know the mendacious reasons given had nothing to do with academic standards... This kind of narcissistic academic professionalism, cowardly deference to the anti-Palestinian prejudices of the Harvard administration, and indifference to my Mother\u2019s death constitutes an intellectual and spiritual bankruptcy of deep deaths..."
]