[
  "** I am going to seek a grand perhaps; draw the curtain, the farce is played.",
  "** I have nothing, owe a great deal, and the rest I leave to the poor.",
  "* Readers, friends, if you turn these pages  Put your prejudice aside,  For, really, theres nothing here thats outrageous,  Nothing sick, or bad \u2014 or contagious.  Not that I sit here glowing with pride  For my book: all youll find is laughter:  Thats all the glory my heart is after,  Seeing how sorrow eats you, defeats you.  Id rather write about laughing than crying,  For laughter makes men human, and courageous.",
  "** To laugh is proper to man.",
  "* It becomes you to be wise to smell, feel, and have in estimation these fair books, de haulte gresse, light in the pursuit, and bold at the encounter. Then you must, by a curious reading and frequent meditation, break the bone and suck out the substantific marrow, \u2014 that is what I mean by these Pythagorean symbols, \u2014 with assured hope of becoming well-advised and valiant by the said reading; for in it you shall find another kind of taste, and a doctrine more profound, which will disclose unto you deep doctrines and dreadful mysteries, as well in what concerneth our religion as matters of the public state and life economical.",
  "** To return to our wethers.",
  "* I drink no more than a sponge.",
  "* Appetite comes with eating, says Angeston. But the thirst goes away with drinking.",
  "** Translation: Nature abhors a vacuum.",
  "* As soon as he was born, he cried not as other babes use to do, Miez, miez, miez, miez, but with a high, sturdy, and big voice shouted about, Some drink, some drink, some drink, as inviting all the world to drink with him. The noise hereof was so extremely great, that it was heard in both the countries at once of Beauce and Bibarois. I doubt me, that you do not thoroughly believe the truth of this strange nativity. Though you believe it not, I care not much: but an honest man, and of good judgment, believeth still what is told him, and that which he finds written.",
  "* Thought the moon was made of green cheese.",
  "* He always looked a given horse in the mouth.",
  "* By robbing Peter he paid Paul, \u2026 and hoped to catch larks if ever the heavens should fall.",
  "* He did not care a button for it.",
  "* How well I feathered my nest.",
  "* He laid him squat as a flounder.",
  "* So much is a man worth as he esteems himself.",
  "* Send them home as merry as crickets.",
  "* A good crier of green sauce.",
  "* Then I began to think that it is very true which is commonly said, that the one half of the world knoweth not how the other half liveth.",
  "** I never follow the clock: hours were made for man, not man for hours.",
  "* Being come down from thence towards Seville, they were heard by Gargantua, who said then unto those that were with him, Comrades and fellow-soldiers, we have here met with an encounter, and they are ten times in number more than we. Shall we charge them or no? What a devil, said the monk, shall we do else? Do you esteem men by their number rather than by their valour and prowess? With this he cried out, Charge, devils, charge! Which when the enemies heard, they thought certainly that they had been very devils, and therefore even then began all of them to run away as hard as they could drive, Drawforth only excepted, who immediately settled his lance on its rest, and therewith hit the monk with all his force on the very middle of his breast, but, coming against his horrific frock, the point of the iron being with the blow either broke off or blunted, it was in matter of execution as if you had struck against an anvil with a little wax-candle.",
  "* Comrades, I hear the track and beating of the enemys horse-feet, and withal perceive that some of them come in a troop and full body against us. Let us rally and close here, then set forward in order, and by this means we shall be able to receive their charge to their loss and our honour.",
  "** War begun without good provision of money beforehand for going through with it is but as a breathing of strength and blast that will quickly pass away. Coin is the sinews of war.",
  "* Corn is the sinews of war.",
  "* Our forefathers and ancestors of all times have been of this nature and disposition, that, upon the winning of a battle, they have chosen rather, for a sign and memorial of their triumphs and victories, to erect trophies and monuments in the hearts of the vanquished by clemency than by architecture in the lands which they had conquered. For they did hold in greater estimation the lively remembrance of men purchased by liberality than the dumb inscription of arches, pillars, and pyramids, subject to the injury of storms and tempests, and to the envy of everyone.",
  "* In end, this free goodwill and simple meaning of the Canarians wrought such tenderness in my fathers heart that he could not abstain from shedding tears, and wept most profusely; then, by choice words very congruously adapted, strove in what he could to diminish the estimation of the good offices which he had done them, saying, that any courtesy he had conferred upon them was not worth a rush, and what favour soever he had showed them he was bound to do it.",
  "* Time, which gnaws and diminisheth all things else, augments and increaseth benefits; because a noble action of liberality, done to a man of reason, doth grow continually by his generous thinking of it and remembering it.  Being unwilling therefore any way to degenerate from the hereditary mildness and clemency of my parents, I do now forgive you, deliver you from all fines and imprisonments, fully release you, set you at liberty, and every way make you as frank and free as ever you were before.",
  "* There was left only the monk to provide for, whom Gargantua would have made Abbot of Seville, but he refused it. He would have given him the Abbey of Bourgueil, or of Sanct Florent, which was better, or both, if it pleased him ; but the monk gave him a very peremptory answer, that he would never take upon him the charge nor government of monks. For how shall I be able, said he, to rule over others, that have not full power and command of myself: If you think I have done you, or may hereafter do you any acceptable service, give me leave to found an abbey after my own mind and fancy.",
  "* Here enter not vile bigots, hypocrites,  Externally devoted apes, base snites,  Puffed-up, wry-necked beasts, worse than the Huns,  Or Ostrogoths, forerunners of baboons:  Cursed snakes, dissembled varlets, seeming sancts,  Slipshod caffards, beggars pretending wants,  Fat chuffcats, smell-feast knockers, doltish gulls,  Out-strouting cluster-fists, contentious bulls,  Fomenters of divisions and debates,  Elsewhere, not here, make sale of your deceits.",
  "* Here enter not attorneys, barristers,  Nor bridle-champing law-practitioners:  Clerks, commissaries, scribes, nor pharisees,  Wilful disturbers of the peoples ease:  Judges, destroyers, with an unjust breath,  Of honest men, like dogs, even unto death.  Your salary is at the gibbet-foot:  Go drink there! for we do not here fly out  On those excessive courses, which may draw  A waiting on your courts by suits in law.",
  "*Grace, honour, praise, delight,  Here sojourn day and night.  Sound bodies lined  With a good mind,  Do here pursue with might  Grace, honour, praise, delight.Here enter you, and welcome from our hearts,  All noble sparks, endowed with gallant parts.  This is the glorious place, which bravely shall  Afford wherewith to entertain you all.  Were you a thousand, here you shall not want  For anything; for what youll ask well grant.  Stay here, you lively, jovial, handsome, brisk,  Gay, witty, frolic, cheerful, merry, frisk,  Spruce, jocund, courteous, furtherers of trades,  And, in a word, all worthy gentle blades.",
  "*Here enter you, pure, honest, faithful, true  Expounders of the Scriptures old and new.  Whose glosses do not blind our reason, but  Make it to see the clearer, and who shut  Its passages from hatred, avarice,  Pride, factions, covenants, and all sort of vice.  Come, settle here a charitable faith,  Which neighbourly affection nourisheth.  And whose light chaseth all corrupters hence,  Of the blest word, from the aforesaid sense.The holy sacred Word,  May it always afford  T us all in common,  Both man and woman,  A spiritual shield and sword,  The holy sacred Word.",
  "* Alluring, courtly, comely, fine, complete,  Wise, personable, ravishing, and sweet,  Come joys enjoy. The Lord celestial  Hath given enough wherewith to please us all.",
  "* All their life was spent not in laws, statutes, or rules, but according to their own free will and pleasure. They rose out of their beds when they thought good : they did eat, drink, labour, sleep, when they had a mind to it, and were disposed for it. None did awake them, none did offer to constrain them to eat, drink, nor to do any other thing ; for so had Gargantua established it. In all their rule, and strictest tie of their order, there was but this one clause to be observed,",
  "* Then shall you many gallant men see by  Valour stirrd up, and youthful fervency,  Who, trusting too much in their hopeful time,  Live but a while, and perish in their prime.  Neither shall any, who this course shall run,  Leave off the race which he hath once begun,  Till they the heavens with noise by their contention  Have filld, and with their steps the earths dimension.  Then those shall have no less authority,  That have no faith, than those that will not lie;  For all shall be governed by a rude,  Base, ignorant, and foolish multitude;  The veriest lout of all shall be their judge,  O horrible and dangerous deluge!",
  "* Then fail not most carefully to peruse the books of the Greek, Arabian, and Latin physicians, not despising the Talmudists and Cabalists; and by frequent anatomies get thee the perfect knowledge of that other world, called the microcosm, which is man. And at some of the hours of the day apply thy mind to the study of the Holy Scriptures; first, in Greek, the New Testament, with the Epistles of the Apostles;: and then the Old Testament in Hebrew. In brief, let me see thee an abyss and bottomless pit of knowledge; for from henceforward, as thou growest great and becomest a man, thou must part from this tranquillity and rest of study, thou must learn chivalry, warfare, and the exercises of the field, the better thereby to defend my house and our friends, and to succour and protect them at all their needs against the invasion and assaults of evildoers.",
  "* But because, as the wise man Solomon saith, Wisdom entereth not into a malicious mind, and that knowledge without conscience is but the ruin of the soul, it behoveth thee to serve, to love, to fear God, and on him to cast all thy thoughts and all thy hope, and by faith formed in charity to cleave unto him, so that thou mayst never be separated from him by thy sins. Suspect the abuses of the world. Set not thy heart upon vanity, for this life is transitory, but the Word of the Lord endureth for ever. Be serviceable to all thy neighbours, and love them as thyself. Reverence thy preceptors: shun the conversation of those whom thou desirest not to resemble, and receive not in vain the graces which God hath bestowed upon thee.",
  "** Translation: In all companies there are more fools than wise men, and the greater part always gets the better of the wiser.",
  "* Subject to a kind of disease, which at that time they called lack of money.",
  "* So much is a man worth as he esteems himself.",
  "* Loupgarou was come with all his giants, who, seeing Pantagruel in a manner alone, was carried away with temerity and presumption, for hopes that he had to kill the good man. Whereupon he said to his companions the giants, You wenchers of the low country, by Mahoom, if any of you undertake to fight against these men here, I will put you cruelly to death. It is my will, that you let me fight single. In the meantime you shall have good sport to look upon us.",
  "* This flea which I have in mine ear.",
  "* You have there hit the nail on the head.",
  "* I have already related to you great and admirable things; but, if you might be induced to adventure upon the hazard of believing some other divinity of this sacred Pantagruelion, I very willingly would tell it you. Believe it, if you will, or otherwise, believe it not, I care not which of them you do, they are both alike to me. It shall be sufficient for my purpose to have told you the truth, and the truth I will tell you.",
  "* If in your soil it takes, to heaven  A thousand thousand thanks be given;  And say with France, it goodly goes,  Where the Pantagruelion grows.",
  "** A certain jollity of mind, pickled in the scorn of fortune.",
  "** Following his example, I encourage all these diabolical calumniators to go hang themselves before the last moons quarter is done. I will supply the rope.",
  "* Above the pitch, out of tune, and off the hinges.",
  "* Ill go his halves.",
  "* The Devil was sick, \u2014 the Devil a monk would be;  The Devil was well, \u2014 the devil a monk was he.",
  "* Do not believe what I tell you here any more than if it were some tale of a tub.",
  "* I would have you call to mind the strength of the ancient giants, that undertook to lay the high mountain Pelion on the top of Ossa, and set among those the shady Olympus.",
  "** Chapter 41",
  "* He that has patience may compass anything.",
  "* We will take the good-will for the deed.",
  "* You are Christians of the best edition, all picked and culled.",
  "* Would you damn your precious soul?",
  "* Let us fly and save our bacon.",
  "* Needs must when the Devil drives.",
  "* Scampering as if the Devil drove them.",
  "* He freshly and cheerfully asked him how a man should kill time.",
  "** The belly has no ears nor is it to be filled with fair words.",
  "* Whose cockloft is unfurnished.",
  "* Come, pluck up a good heart; speak the truth and shame the devil.",
  "* Plain as the nose in a mans face.",
  "* Like hearts of oak.",
  "* You shall never want rope enough.",
  "* Looking as like...as one pea does like another.",
  "* Nothing is so dear and precious as time.",
  "* And thereby hangs a tale.",
  "* It is meat, drink, and cloth to us.",
  "* And so on to the end of the chapter.",
  "* What is got over the Devils back is spent under the belly.",
  "* We have here other fish to fry.",
  "** Chapter 15",
  "* Thought I to myself, we shall never come off scot-free.",
  "* It is enough to fright you out of your seven senses.",
  "* Necessity has no law.",
  "* Panurge had no sooner heard this, but he was upon the high-rope.",
  "* On the third day the sky seemed to us somewhat clearer, and we happily arrived at the port of Mateotechny, not far distant from Queen Whims, alias the Quintessence.  We met full butt on the quay a great number of guards and other military men that garrisoned the arsenal, and we were somewhat frighted at first because they made us all lay down our arms, and in a haughty manner asked us whence we came.",
  "* What do you say? cried they; do you call it Entelechy or Endelechy? Truly, truly, sweet cousins, quoth Panurge, we are a silly sort of grout-headed lobcocks, ant please you; be so kind as to forgive us if we chance to knock words out of joint. As for anything else, we are downright honest fellows and true hearts.",
  "* There has been here from other countries a pack of I know not what overweening self-conceited prigs, as moody as so many mules and as stout as any Scotch lairds, and nothing would serve these, forsooth, but they must wilfully wrangle and stand out against us at their coming; and much they got by it after all. Troth, we een fitted them and clawed em off with a vengeance, for all they looked so big and so grum.  Pray tell me, does your time lie so heavy upon you in your world that you do not know how to bestow it better than in thus impudently talking, disputing, and writing of our sovereign lady?",
  "* shibboleth; and among friends, let me tell you that perhaps there is not a man in the whole country of Beauce but might easily have stopped my bunghole with a cartload of hay.  The captain afterwards took us to the queens palace, leading us silently with great formality. Pantagruel would have said something to him, but the other, not being able to come up to his height, wished for a ladder or a very long pair of stilts; then said, Patience, if it were our sovereign ladys will, we would be as tall as you; well, we shall when she pleases.",
  "* The probity that scintillizes in the superfices of your persons informs my ratiocinating faculty, in a most stupendous manner, of the radiant virtues latent within the precious caskets and ventricles of your minds. For, contemplating the mellifluous suavity of your thrice discreet reverences, it is impossible not to be persuaded with facility that neither your affections nor your intellects are vitiated with any defect or privation of liberal and exalted sciences. Far from it, all must judge that in you are lodged a cornucopia and encyclopaedia, an unmeasurable profundity of knowledge in the most peregrine and sublime disciplines, so frequently the admiration, and so rarely the concomitants of the imperite vulgar. This gently compels me, who in preceding times indefatigably kept my private affections absolutely subjugated, to condescend to make my application to you in the trivial phrase of the plebeian world, and assure you that you are well, more than most heartily welcome.",
  "* Queen Whims, or Queen Quintessence (which you please), perceiving that we stood as mute as fishes, said: Your taciturnity speaks you not only disciples of panacea; and straight they desired us not to take it amiss if the queen did not invite us to dine with her; for she never ate anything at dinner but some categories, jecabots, emnins, dimions, abstractions, harborins, chelemins, second intentions, carradoths, antitheses, metempsychoses, transcendent prolepsies, and such other light food.",
  "* Pantagruel was telling me that he believed the queen had given the symbolic word used among her subjects to denote sovereign good cheer, when she said to her tabachins, A panacea.",
  "* We saw a knot of others, about a bakers dozen.",
  "* Others made a virtue of necessity.",
  "* Spare your breath to cool your porridge.",
  "* I believe he would make three bites of a cherry."
]