[
  "** We are as forlorn as children lost in the woods. When you stand in front of me and look at me, what do you know of the griefs that are in me and what do I know of yours? And if I were to cast myself down before you and weep and tell you, what more would you know about me than you know about Hell when someone tells you it is hot and dreadful? For that reason alone we human beings ought to stand before one another as reverently, as reflectively, as lovingly, as we would before the entrance to Hell.",
  "** I think we ought to read only the kind of books that wound and stab us. If the book we are reading doesnt wake us up with a blow on the head, what are we reading it for? ...we need the books that affect us like a disaster, that grieve us deeply, like the death of someone we loved more than ourselves, like being banished into forests far from everyone, like a suicide. A book must be the axe for the frozen sea inside us.",
  "* Now the Sirens have a still more fatal weapon than their song, namely their silence... Someone might possibly have escaped from their singing; but from their silence, certainly never.",
  "* \"The bliss of murder! The relief, the soaring ecstasy from the shedding of another\u2019s blood! Wese, old nightbird, friend, alehouse crony, you are oozing away into the dark earth below the street. Why aren\u2019t you simply a bladder of blood so that I could stamp on you and make you vanish into nothingness? Not all we want comes true, not all the dreams that blossomed have borne fruit, your solid remains lie here, already indifferent to every kick. What\u2019s the good of the dumb question you are asking?\"",
  "* Plenty of hope \u2014 for God \u2014 no end of hope \u2014 only not for us.",
  "** As Gregor Samsa awoke one morning from uneasy dreams he found himself transformed in his bed into an enormous insect.",
  "* What a fate: to be condemned to work for a firm where the slightest negligence at once gave rise to the gravest suspicion! Were all the employees nothing but a bunch of scoundrels, was there not among them one single loyal devoted man who, had he wasted only an hour or so of the firms time in the morning, was so tormented by conscience as to be driven out of his mind and actually incapable of leaving his bed?",
  "* How about if I sleep a little bit longer and forget all this nonsense.",
  "* \"Hey, there\u2019s something falling down in there,\" said the chief clerk. Gregor tried to suppose to himself that what had happened to him might some day also happen to the chief clerk. There was no denying that anything was possible.",
  "* I cannot make you understand. I cannot make anyone understand what is happening inside me. I cannot even explain it to myself.",
  "* Was he an animal, that music could move him so? He felt as if the way to the unknown nourishment he longed for were coming to light.",
  "* He thought back on his family with deep emotion and love. His conviction that he would have to disappear was, if possible, even firmer than his sisters. He remained in this state of empty and peaceful reflection until the tower clock struck three in the morning. He still saw that outside the window everything was beginning to grow light. Then, without his consent, his head sank down to the floor, and from his nostrils streamed his last weak breath.",
  "* The true way is along a rope that is not spanned high in the air, but only just above the ground. It seems intended more to cause stumbling than to be walked upon.",
  "* All human errors are impatience, the premature breaking off of what is methodical, an apparent fencing in of the apparent thing.",
  "* There are two main human sins from which all the others derive: impatience and indolence. It was because of impatience that they were expelled from Paradise; it is because of indolence that they do not return. Yet perhaps there is only one major sin: impatience. Because of impatience they were expelled, because of impatience they do not return.",
  "* Beyond a certain point there is no return. This point has to be reached.",
  "* The decisive moment in human evolution is perpetual. That is why the revolutionary spiritual movements that declare all former things worthless are in the right, for nothing has yet happened.",
  "** 9; parody of a statement of Victor Hugo",
  "* One of the first signs of the beginnings of understanding is the wish to die. This life appears unbearable, another unattainable. One is no longer ashamed of wanting to die; one asks to be moved from the old cell, which one hates, to a new one, which one will only in time come to hate.",
  "* A cage went in search of a bird.",
  "* If it had been possible to build the Tower of Babel without climbing it, it would have been permitted.",
  "* Leopards break into the temple and drink to the dregs what is in the sacrificial pitchers; this is repeated over and over again; finally it can be calculated in advance, and it becomes a part of the ceremony.",
  "* From the true antagonist illimitable courage is transmitted to you.",
  "* Hiding places there are innumerable, escape is only one, but possibilities for escape, again, are as many as hiding places. There is a goal, but no way; what we call a way is hesitation.",
  "* When one has once accepted and absorbed Evil, it no longer demands to be believed.",
  "* The ulterior motives with which you absorb and assimilate Evil are not your own but those of Evil.  The animal wrests the whip from its master and whips itself in order to become master, not knowing that this is only a fantasy produced by a new knot in the master\u2019s whiplash.",
  "* In a certain sense the Good is comfortless.",
  "* Self-control is something for which I do not strive. Self-control means wanting to be effective at some random point in the infinite radiations of my spiritual existence.",
  "* Martyrs do not underrate the body, they allow it to be elevated on the cross. In this they are at one with their antagonists.",
  "* His weariness is that of the gladiator after the combat; his work was the whitewashing of a corner in a state officials office.",
  "* Previously I did not understand why I got no answer to my question; today I do not understand how I could believe I was capable of asking. But I didn\u2019t really believe, I only asked.",
  "* The way is infinitely long, nothing of it can be subtracted, nothing can be added, and yet everyone applies his own childish yardstick to it. \u201cCertainly, this yard of the way you still have to go, too, and it will be accounted unto you.\u201d",
  "* It is only our conception of time that makes us call the Last Judgment by this name. It is, in fact, a kind of martial law.",
  "* Believing in progress does not mean believing that any progress has yet been made. That is not the sort of belief that indicates real faith.",
  "** Man cannot live without a permanent trust in something indestructible in himself, though both the indestructible element and the trust may remain permanently hidden from him. One of the ways in which this hiddenness can express itself is through faith in a personal god.",
  "* The mediation by the serpent was necessary: Evil can seduce man, but cannot become man.",
  "* In the struggle between yourself and the world, second the world.",
  "* One must not cheat anyone, not even the world of its victory.",
  "* There is nothing besides a spiritual world; what we call the world of the senses is the Evil in the spiritual world, and what we call Evil is only the necessity of a moment in our eternal evolution.  One can disintegrate the world by means of very strong light. For weak eyes the world becomes solid, for still weaker eyes it seems to develop fists, for eyes weaker still it becomes shamefaced and smashes anyone who dares to gaze upon it.",
  "* There are questions we could not get past if we were not set free from them by our very nature.",
  "* One tells as few lies as possible only by telling as few lies as possible, and not by having the least possible opportunity to do so.",
  "* The fact that there is nothing but a spiritual world deprives us of hope and gives us certainty.",
  "* Expulsion from Paradise is in its main aspect eternal: that is to say, although expulsion from Paradise is final, and life in the world unavoidable, the eternity of the process (or, expressed in temporal terms, the eternal repetition of the process) nevertheless makes it possible not only that we might remain in Paradise permanently, but that we may in fact be there permanently, no matter whether we know it here or not.",
  "* What is gayer than believing in a household god?",
  "* Theoretically there is a perfect possibility of happiness: believing in the indestructible element in oneself and not striving towards it.",
  "* The indestructible is one: it is each individual human being and, at the same time, it is common to all, hence the incomparably indivisible union that exists between human beings.",
  "* If what was supposed to have been destroyed in Paradise was destructible, then it was not decisive; but if it was indestructible, then we are living in a false belief.",
  "* Test yourself on mankind. It is something that makes the doubter doubt, the believer believe.",
  "* Association with human beings lures one into self-observation.",
  "* Sensual love deceives one as to the nature of heavenly love; it could not do so alone, but since it unconsciously has the element of heavenly love within it, it can do so.",
  "* Truth is indivisible, hence it cannot recognize itself; anyone who wants to recognize it has to be a lie.",
  "* Why do we complain about the Fall? It is not on its account that we were expelled from Paradise, but on account of the Tree of Life, lest we might eat of it.",
  "* The whole visible world is perhaps nothing more than than the rationalization of a man who wants to find peace for a moment. An attempt to falsify the actuality of knowledge, to regard knowledge as a goal still to be reached.",
  "* We are sinful not only because we have eaten of the Tree of Knowledge, but also because we have not yet eaten of the Tree of Life. The state in which we are is sinful, irrespective of guilt.",
  "* Evil is a radiation of the human consciousness in certain transitional positions. It is not actually the sensual world that is a mere appearance; what is so is the evil of it, which, admittedly, is what constitutes the sensual world in our eyes.",
  "* The whole visible world is perhaps nothing other than a motivation of man\u2019s wish to rest for a moment \u2014 an attempt to falsify the fact of knowledge, to try to turn the knowledge into the goal.",
  "* A belief is like a guillotine, just as heavy, just as light.",
  "* Two possibilities: making oneself infinitely small or being so. The second is perfection, that is to say, inactivity, the first is beginning, that is to say, action.",
  "* Towards the avoidance of a piece of verbal confusion: What is intended to be actively destroyed must first of all have been firmly grasped; what crumbles away crumbles away, but cannot be destroyed.",
  "* The first worship of idols was certainly fear of the things in the world, but, connected with this, fear of the necessity of the things, and, connected with this, fear of responsibility for the things. So tremendous did this responsibility appear that people did not even dare to impose it upon one single extra-human entity, for even the mediation of one being would not have sufficiently lightened human responsibility, intercourse with only one being would still have been all too deeply tainted with responsibility, and that is why each thing was given the responsibility for itself, more indeed, these things were also given a degree of responsibility for man.",
  "* There can be knowledge of the diabolical, but no belief in it, for more of the diabolical than there is does not exist.",
  "* We too must suffer all the suffering around us. We all have not one body, but we have one way of growing, and this leads us through all anguish, whether in this or in that form. Just as the child develops through all the stages of life right into old age and to death (and fundamentally to the earlier stage the later one seems out of reach, in relation both to desire and to fear), so also do we develop (no less deeply bound up with mankind than with ourselves) through all the sufferings of this world. There is no room for justice in this context, but neither is there any room either for fear of suffering or for the interpretation of suffering as a merit.",
  "** You can hold yourself back from the sufferings of the world, that is something you are free to do and it accords with your nature, but perhaps this very holding back is the one suffering you could avoid.",
  "* Humility provides everyone, even him who despairs in solitude, with the strongest relationship to his fellow man, and this immediately, though, of course, only in the case of complete and permanent humility. It can do this because it is the true language of prayer, at once adoration and the firmest of unions. The relationship to one\u2019s fellow man is the relationship of prayer, the relationship to oneself is the relationship of striving; it is from prayer that one draws the strength for one\u2019s striving.",
  "* \"It cannot be said that we are lacking in faith. Even the simple fact of our life is of a faith-value that can never be exhausted.\u201d \u201cYou suggest there is some faith-value in this? One cannot not-live, after all.\u201d \u201cIt is precisely in this \u2018Cannot, after all\u2019 that the mad strength of faith lies; it is in this negation that it takes on form.\u201d  There is no need for you to leave the house. Stay at your table and listen. Don\u2019t even listen, just wait. Don\u2019t even wait, be completely quiet and alone. The world will offer itself to you to be unmasked; it can\u2019t do otherwise; in raptures it will writhe before you.",
  "* Someone must have been telling lies about Joseph K., for without having done anything wrong he was arrested one fine morning. His landladys cook, who always brought him his breakfast at eight oclock, failed to appear on this occasion. That had never happened before.",
  "* It would have been so pointless to kill himself that, even if he had wanted to, the pointlessness would have made him unable.",
  "* Theyre talking about things of which they dont have the slightest understanding, anyway. Its only because of their stupidity that theyre able to be so sure of themselves.",
  "* This question of yours, Sir, about my being a house painter \u2014 or rather, not a question, you simply made a statement \u2014 is typical of the whole character of this trial that is being foisted on me. You may object that it is not a trial at all; you are quite right, for it is only a trial if I recognize it as such. But for the moment I do recognize it, on grounds of compassion, as it were. One cant regard it except with compassion, if one is to regard it at all. I do not say that your procedure is contemptible, but I should like to present that epithet to you for your private consumption.",
  "* The right understanding of any matter and a misunderstanding of the same matter do not wholly exclude each other.",
  "* What an obstacle had suddenly arisen to block K.s career! And this was the moment when he was supposed to work for the bank? He looked down at his desk. This the time to interview clients and negotiate with them? While his case was unfolding itself, while up in the attics the Court officials were poring over the charge papers, was he to devote his attention to the affairs of the bank? It looked like a kind of torture sanctioned by the Court, arising from his case and concomitant with it.",
  "*Even that has its reason; it is often better to be in chains than to be free.",
  "* ...it is not necessary to accept everything as true, one must only accept it as necessary. A melancholy conclusion, said K. It turns lying into a universal principle.In the Cathedral",
  "* Logic may indeed be unshakeable, but it cannot withstand a man who is determined to live. Where was the judge he had never seen? Where was the High Court he had never reached? He raised his hands and spread out all his fingers. But the hands of one of the men closed round his throat, just as the other drove the knife deep into his heart and turned it twice.",
  "* \"Like a dog!\" he said, it was as if the shame of it should outlive him.",
  "*I dream of a grave, deep and narrow, where we could clasp each other in our arms as with clamps, and I would hide my face in you and you would hide your face in me, and nobody would ever see us any more",
  "*One must fight to get to the top, especially if one starts at the bottom.",
  "*Theres no quiet place here on earth for our love, not in the village and not anywhere else, so I picture a grave, deep and narrow, in which we embrace as if clamped together, I bury my face against you, you yours against me, and no one will ever see us.",
  "*If a man has his eyes bound, you can encourage him as much as you like to stare through the bandage, but hell never see anything",
  "* The whole visible world is perhaps nothing more than than the rationalization of a man who wants to find peace for a moment. An attempt to falsify the actuality of knowledge, to regard knowledge as a goal still to be reached.",
  "* The Messiah will come only when he is no longer necessary; he will come only on the day after his arrival; he will come, not on the last day, but on the very last day.",
  "* I can prove at any time that my education tried to make another person out of me than the one I became. It is for the harm, therefore, that my educators could have done me in accordance with their intentions that I reproach them; I demand from their hands the person I now am, and since they cannot give him to me, I make of my reproach and laughter a drumbeat sounding in the world beyond.",
  "* \"Dont you want to join us?\" I was recently asked by an acquaintance when he ran across me alone after midnight in a coffeehouse that was already almost deserted. \"No, I dont,\" I said.",
  "* Eternal childhood. Life calls again.  It is entirely conceivable that life\u2019s splendour forever lies in wait about each one of us in all its fullness, but veiled from view, deep down, invisible, far off. It is there, though, not hostile, not reluctant, not deaf. If you summon it by the right word, by its right name, it will come. This is the essence of magic, which does not create but summons.",
  "* Anyone who cannot come to terms with his life while he is alive needs one hand to ward off a little his despair over his fate \u2014 he has little success in this \u2014 but with his other hand he can note down what he sees among the ruins, for he sees different (and more) things than do the others; after all, dead as he is in his own lifetime, he is the real survivor. This assumes that he does not need both hands, or more hands than he has, in his struggle against despair.",
  "** Aren\u2019t our eyes made to be torn out, and our hearts for the same purpose? At the same time it\u2019s really not that bad; that\u2019s an exaggeration and a lie, everything is exaggeration, the only truth is longing, which cannot be exaggerated. But even the truth of longing is not so much its own truth; it\u2019s really an expression of everything else, which is a lie. This sounds crazy and distorted, but it\u2019s true.  Moreover, perhaps it isn\u2019t love when I say you are what I love the most \u2014 you are the knife I turn inside myself, this is love.",
  "* The history of mankind is the instant between two strides taken by a traveler.",
  "* The thornbush is old obstacle in the road. It must catch fire if you want to go further.",
  "* There was once a community of scoundrels, that is to say, they were not scoundrels, but ordinary people.",
  "* Anyone who believes cannot experience miracles. By day one does not see any stars. Anyone who does miracles says: I cannot let go of the earth.",
  "* Religions get lost as people do.",
  "* Idleness is the beginning of all vice, the crown of all virtues.",
  "** Translation: Evil knows of the Good, but Good does not know of Evil. Knowledge of oneself is something only Evil has. - [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gD981HZ190BUJF-3czZNX3DsFWvqp3cq-Z4QS4d-9gw/edit?hl=en The First Octavo Notebook]",
  "* Now at last I can look at you in peace, I dont eat you anymore.",
  "* What is meant by its nature for the highest and the best, spreads among the lowly people.",
  "* A man once said: Why such reluctance? If you only followed the parables you yourselves would become parables and with that rid of all your daily cares.  Another said: I bet that is also a parable.  The first said: You have won.  The second said: But unfortunately only in parable.  The first said: No, in reality: in parable you have lost.",
  "* \"Everything you say is boring and incomprehensible,\" she said, \"but that alone doesnt make it true.\"",
  "* \"Oh well, memories,\u201d said I. \u201cYes, even remembering in itself is sad, yet how much more its object! Don\u2019t let yourself in for things like that, it\u2019s not for you and it\u2019s not for me. It only weakens one\u2019s present position without strengthening the former one \u2014 nothing is more obvious \u2014 quite apart from the fact that the former one doesn\u2019t need strengthening.\"",
  "* When\u00a0.\u00a0.\u00a0. some leisurely passer-by stopped\u00a0.\u00a0.\u00a0. and spoke of cheating, that was in its way the stupidest lie ever invented by indifference and inborn malice, since it was not the hunger artist who was cheating, he was working honestly, but the world was cheating him of his reward.",
  "* To fight against this lack of understanding, against a whole world of non-understanding, was impossible.",
  "* How much my life has changed, and yet how unchanged it has remained at bottom! When I think back and recall the time when I was still a member of the canine community, sharing in all its preoccupations, a dog among dogs, I find on closer examination that from the very beginning I sensed some discrepancy, some little maladjustment, causing a slight feeling of discomfort which not even the most decorous public functions could eliminate; more, that sometimes, no, not sometimes, but very often, the mere look of some fellow dog of my own circle that I was fond of, the mere look of him, as if I had just caught it for the first time, would fill me with helpless embarrassment and fear, even with despair.",
  "* All knowledge, the totality of all questions and all answers, is contained in the dog. If one could but realize this knowledge, if one could but bring it into the light of day, if we dogs would but own that we know infinitely more than we admit to ourselves!",
  "* Ours is a lost generation, it may be, but it is more blameless than those earlier generations.",
  "* So long as you have food in your mouth, you have solved all questions for the time being.",
  "* \"You asking me the way?\" \"Yes,\" I said, \"since I cant find it myself.\" \"Give it up! Give it up!\" said he, and turned with a sudden jerk, like someone who wants to be alone with his laughter.",
  "* We met a large group of workmen who were marching with flags and banners to a meeting.Kafka said, \"These people are so self-possessed, so self-confident and good humoured. They rule the streets, and therefore think they rule the world. In fact, they are mistaken. Behind them already are the secretaries, officials, professional pohticians, all the modern satraps for whom they are preparing the way to power.\"\"You do not beheve in the power of the masses?\"\"It is before my eyes, this power of the masses, formless and apparently chaotic, which then seeks to be given a form and a discipline. At the end of every truly revolutionary development there appears a Napoleon Bonaparte.\"\"You don\"t believe in a wider expansion of the Russian Revolution?\"Kafka was silent for a moment, then he said:\"As a flood spreads wider and wider, the water becomes shallower and dirtier. The Revolution evaporates, and leaves behind only the slime of a new bureaucracy. The chains of tormented mankind are made out of red tape.\"",
  "* By believing passionately in something which still does not exist, we create it. The nonexistent is whatever we have not sufficiently desired."
]