[
  "* I feel an army in my fist.",
  "* To save all we must risk all.",
  "* The joke loses everything when the joker laughs himself.",
  "* Did you think the lion was sleeping because he didnt roar?",
  "* The lemonade is weak, like your soul.",
  "* There are three lessons I would write, \u2014 Three words \u2014 as with a burning pen,In tracings of eternal lightUpon the hearts of men.  Have Hope. Though clouds environ now,  And gladness hides her face in scorn,  Put thou the shadow from thy brow, \u2014  No night but hath its morn.  Have Faith. Whereer thy bark is driven, \u2014  The calms disport, the tempests mirth, \u2014  Know this: God rules the hosts of heaven,  The habitants of earth.  Have Love. Not love alone for one,  But men, as man, thy brothers call;   And scatter, like the circling sun,  Thy charities on all.  Thus grave these lessons on thy soul, \u2014  Hope, Faith, and Love, \u2014 and thou shalt find  Strength when lifes surges rudest roll,  Light when thou else wert blind.",
  "* Die Weltgeschichte ist das Weltgericht.",
  "* Translation: World history is the worlds court.",
  "* What one refuses in a minuteNo eternity will return.",
  "* What the inner voice saysWill not disappoint the hoping soul.",
  "* If thou canst not give pleasure to all by thy deeds and thy knowledge  Give it then, unto the few; many to please is but in vain.",
  "* Wouldst thou know thyself, observe the actions of others.  Wouldst thou other men know, look thou within thine own heart.",
  "* Man is created free, and is free,Though he be born in chains.",
  "* Virtue is no empty echo.",
  "* O tender yearning, sweet hoping!The golden time of first love!The eye sees the open heaven,The heart is intoxicated with bliss;O that the beautiful time of young loveCould remain green forever.",
  "* Appearance should never attain reality,And if nature conquers, then must art retire.",
  "** One cannot prevent people from thinking what they please.",
  "* I am better than my reputation.",
  "** What is not abandoned is never completely lost.",
  "** Life is but a moment. Death is but a moment, too.",
  "* Who dares impede my progress? Who presume The spirit to control which guideth me? Still must the arrow wing its destined flight! Where danger is, there must Johanna be; Nor now, nor here, am I foredoomed to fall; Our monarchs royal brow I first must see Invested with the round of sovereignty. No hostile power can rob me of my life, Till Ive accomplished the commands of God.",
  "* Folly, thou conquerest, and I must yield! Against stupidity the very gods  Themselves contend in vain. Exalted reason, Resplendent daughter of the head divine, Wise foundress of the system of the world, Guide of the stars, who art thou then if thou, Bound to the tail of follys uncurbed steed, Must, vainly shrieking with the drunken crowd, Eyes open, plunge down headlong in the abyss. Accursed, who striveth after noble ends, And with deliberate wisdom forms his plans! To the fool-king belongs the world.",
  "* Pain is short, and joy is eternal.",
  "* Life is only error,And death is knowledge.",
  "* What are hopes, what are plans?",
  "* Dont let your heart depend on thingsThat ornament life in a fleeting way!He who possesses, let him learn to lose,He who is fortunate, let him learn pain.",
  "* On the mountains there is freedom!The world is perfect everywhere,Save where man comes with his torment.",
  "* Only through Beautys morning gate, dost thou enter the land of Knowledge.",
  "** The dignity of mankind is in your hands; protect it!It sinks with you! With you it will ascend.",
  "* Threefold the stride of Time, from first to last!  Loitering slow, the Future creepeth \u2014  Arrow-swift, the Present sweepeth \u2014  And motionless forever stands the Past.",
  "* The voice of the majority is no proof of justice.",
  "* Have faith! whereer thy bark is driven,\u2014The calms disport, the tempests mirth,\u2014Know this! God rules the host of heaven,The inhabitants of earth.",
  "* O who knows what slumbers in the background of the times?",
  "* O the idea was childish, but divinely beautiful.",
  "**  Great souls endure in silence.",
  "* A moment lived in paradiseIs not atoned for too dearly by death.",
  "* I am calledThe richest monarch in the Christian world;The sun in my dominion never sets.",
  "** Love is only known by him who hopelessly persists in love.",
  "* KING PHILIPP II: Can you establish some new creed to justify my bloody murder of my only son?GRAND INQUISITOR: To appease eternal justice and redeem us, Gods own Son was killed on the wooden cross.KING: And can you spread this creed throughout all Europe?GRAND INQUISITOR: Far and wide, everywhere people worship the cross.",
  "* Joy, thou spark from Heavn immortal,Daughter of Elysium!Drunk with fire, toward Heaven advancingGoddess, to thy shrine we come.Thy sweet magic brings togetherWhat stern Custom spreads afar;All men become brothersWhere thy happy wing-beats are.",
  "* Be embraced, ye millions!This kiss is for the whole world!Brothers, above the arch of starsA loving Father surely dwells.",
  "* Welcome, all ye myriad creatures!Brethren, take the kiss of love!",
  "* He, that noble prize possessing\u2014He that boasts a friend thats true,He whom womans love is blessing,Let him join the chorus too!",
  "* Bow before him, all creation!Mortals, own the God of love!Seek him high the stars above,\u2014Yonder is his habitation!",
  "* Joy, in Natures wide dominion,Mightiest cause of all is found;And tis joy that moves the pinion,When the wheel of time goes round",
  "* Joy from truths own glass of fireSweetly on the searcher smiles;Lest on virtues steeps he tire,Joy the tedious path beguiles.High on faiths bright hill before us,See her banner proudly wave!Joy, too, swells the angels chorus,\u2014 Bursts the bondage of the grave!",
  "* To the Gods we neer can renderPraise for every good they grant;Let us, with devotion tender,Minister to grief and want.Quenched be hate and wrath forever,Pardoned be our mortal foe\u2014 May our tears upbraid him never,No repentance bring him low!",
  "* Sense of wrongs forget to treasure\u2014 Brethren, live in perfect love!In the starry realms above,God will mete as we may measure.",
  "* Courage, neer by sorrow broken!Aid where tears of virtue flow;Faith to keep each promise spoken!Truth alike to friend and foe!",
  "* Lo, the dead shall rise to heaven!Brethren hail the blest decree;Every sin shall be forgiven,Hell forever cease to be!",
  "* We are citizens of an age, as well as of a State; and if it is held to be unseemly, or even inadmissable, for a man to cut himself off from the customs and manners of the circle in which he lives, why should it be less of a duty, in the choice of his activity, to submit his decision to the needs and the taste of his century?",
  "* The voice of our age seems by no means favorable to art, at all events to that kind of art to which my inquiry is directed. The course of events has given a direction to the genius of the time that threatens to remove it continually further from the ideal of art. For art has to leave reality, it has to raise itself bodily above necessity and neediness; for art is the daughter of freedom, and it requires its prescriptions and rules to be furnished by the necessity of spirits and not by that of matter. But in our day it is necessity, neediness, that prevails, and bends a degraded humanity under its iron yoke. Utility is the great idol of the time, to which all powers do homage and all subjects are subservient. In this great balance of utility, the spiritual service of art has no weight, and, deprived of all encouragement, it vanishes from the noisy Vanity Fair of our time. The very spirit of philosophical inquiry itself robs the imagination of one promise after another, and the frontiers of art are narrowed, in proportion as the limits of science are enlarged.",
  "* It is through beauty that we arrive at freedom.",
  "* When man is raised from his slumber in the senses, he feels that he is a man, he surveys his surroundings, and finds that he is in a state. He was introduced into this state, by the power of circumstances, before he could freely select his own position. But as a moral being he cannot possibly rest satisfied with a political condition forced upon him by necessity, and only calculated for that condition; and it would be unfortunate if this did satisfy him. In many cases man shakes off this blind law of necessity, by his free spontaneous action, of which among many others we have an instance, in his ennobling by beauty and suppressing by moral influence the powerful impulse implanted in him by nature in the passion of love.",
  "* Nothing, it is true, is more common than for both Science and Art to pay homage to the spirit of the age, and for creative taste to accept the law of critical taste.",
  "* Dare to be wise! Energy and spirit is needed to overcome the obstacles which indolence of nature as well as cowardice of heart oppose to our instruction. It is not without significance that the old myth makes the goddess of Wisdom emerge fully armed from the head of Jupiter; for her very first function is warlike. Even in her birth she has to maintain a hard struggle with the senses, which do not want to be dragged from their sweet repose. The greater part of humanity is too much harassed and fatigued by the struggle with want, to rally itself for a new and sterner struggle with error. Content if they themselves escape the hard labor of thought, men gladly resign to others the guardianship of their ideas, and if it happens that higher needs are stirred in them, they embrace with a eager faith the formulas which State and priesthood hold in readiness for such an occasion.",
  "* They have founded the whole structure of their happiness on these very illusions, which ought to be combated and dissipated by the light of knowledge, and they would think they were paying too dearly for a truth which begins by robbing them of all that has value in their sight. It would be necessary that they should be already sages to love wisdom: a truth that was felt at once by him to whom philosophy owes its name.",
  "* As noble Art has survived noble nature, so too she marches ahead of it, fashioning and awakening by her inspiration. Before Truth sends her triumphant light into the depths of the heart, imagination catches its rays, and the peaks of humanity will be glowing when humid night still lingers in the valleys.",
  "* No doubt the artist is the child of his time; but woe to him if he is also its disciple, or even its favorite.",
  "** Live with your century; but do not be its creature. Work for your contemporaries; but create what they need, not what they praise.",
  "* Man only plays when in the full meaning of the word he is a man, and he is only completely a man when he plays.",
  "* While the womanly god demands our veneration, the godlike woman kindles our love; but while we allow ourselves to melt in the celestial loveliness, the celestial self-sufficiency holds us back in awe.",
  "* The Greeks put us to shame not only by their simplicity, which is foreign to our age; they are at the same time our rivals, nay, frequently our models, in those very points of superiority from which we seek comfort when regretting the unnatural character of our manners. We see that remarkable people uniting at once fullness of form and fullness of substance, both philosophising and creating, both tender and energetic, uniting a youthful fancy to the virility of reason in a glorious humanity.",
  "* Posterity weaves no garlands for imitators.",
  "* He who has done his best for his own time has lived for all times.",
  "* Life is earnest, art is gay.",
  "* Whatever is not forbidden is permitted.",
  "* What is the short meaning of the long speech?",
  "** Translation: War nourishes war.",
  "* My son, theres nothing insignificant,Nothing! But yet in every earthly thingFirst and most principal is place and time.",
  "* The intelligible forms of ancient poets,The fair humanities of old religion,The power, the beauty, and the majestyThat had their haunts in dale or piny mountain,Or forest by slow stream, or pebbly spring,Or chasms and watery depths, \u2014 all these have vanished;They live no longer in the faith of reason.",
  "* In thy breast are the stars of thy fate.",
  "* You say it as you understand it.",
  "* When the wine goes in, strange things come out.",
  "* The dictates of the heart are the voice of fate.",
  "* The hat is the pride of man; for he who cannot keep his hat on before kings and emperors is no free man.",
  "* The empire of Saturnus is gone by; Lord of the secret birth of things is he; Within the lap of earth, and in the depths Of the imagination dominates; And his are all things that eschew the light. The time is oer of brooding and contrivance, For Jupiter, the lustrous, lordeth now, And the dark work, complete of preparation, He draws by force into the realm of light. Now must we hasten on to action, ere The scheme, and most auspicious positure Parts oer my head, and takes once more its flight, For the heavens journey still, and adjourn not.",
  "* Man is made of ordinary things, and habit is his nurse.",
  "* I have only an office here, and no opinion.",
  "* Virtue has her heroes tooAs well as Fame and Fortune.",
  "* Many a crown shines spotless nowThat yet was deeply sullied in the winning.",
  "* The world is narrow, broad the mind\u2014Thoughts dwell easily side by sideThings collide violently in space",
  "* Theres no such thing as chance;And what to us seems merest accidentSprings from the deepest source of destiny.",
  "* What is life without the radiance of love?",
  "* Time is mans angel.",
  "* The strong man is strongest when alone.",
  "** One people will we be, \u2014 a band of brothers;  No danger, no distress shall sunder us.  We will be freemen as our fathers were,  And sooner welcome death than live as slaves.  We will rely on Gods almighty arm,  And never quail before the power of man.",
  "* The mountain cannot frighten one who was born on it.",
  "* Who reflects too much will accomplish little.",
  "* You saw his weakness, and he will never forgive you.",
  "* This feat of Tell, the archer, will be toldWhile yonder mountains stand upon their base.By heaven! The apples cleft right through the core.",
  "* No cause has he to say his doom is harsh, Whos made the master of his destiny.",
  "* Whats old collapses, times change,And new life blossoms in the ruins.",
  "* A gloomy guest fits not a wedding feast.",
  "* The most pious man cant stay in peace  If it doesnt please his evil neighbor.",
  "* The reason passes, like the heart, through certain epochs and transitions, but its development is not so often portrayed. Men seem to have been satisfied with unfolding the passions in their extremes, their aberration, and their results, without considering how closely they are bound up with the intellectual constitution of the individual.",
  "* The present age has witnessed an extraordinary increase of a thinking public, by the facilities afforded to the diffusion of reading; the former happy resignation to ignorance begins to make way for a state of half-enlightenment, and few persons are willing to remain in the condition in which their birth has placed then.",
  "* Rarely do we arrive at the summit of truth without running into extremes; we have frequently to exhaust the part of error, and even of folly, before we work our way up to the noble goal of tranquil wisdom.",
  "* Truth suffers no loss if a vehement youth fails in finding it, in the same way that virtue and religion suffer no detriment if a criminal denies them.",
  "* The universe is a thought of God. After this ideal thought-fabric passed out into reality, and the new-born world fulfilled the plan of its Creator\u2014permit me to use this human simile\u2014the first duty of all thinking beings has been to retrace the original design in this great reality; to find the principle in the mechanism, the unity in the compound, the law in the phenomenon, and to pass back from the structure to its primitive foundation. Accordingly to me there is only one appearance in nature\u2014the thinking being. The great compound called the world is only remarkable to me because it is present to shadow forth symbolically the manifold expressions of that being. All in me and out of me is only the hieroglyph of a power which is like to me. The laws of nature are the cyphers which the thinking mind adds on to make itself understandable to intelligence\u2014the alphabet by means of which all spirits communicate with the most perfect Spirit and with one another. Harmony, truth, order, beauty, excellence, give me joy, because they transport me into the active state of their author, of their possessor, because they betray the presence of a rational and feeling Being, and let me perceive my relationship with that Being.",
  "* I speak with the Eternal through the instrument of nature, \u2014 through the worlds history: I read the soul of the artist in his Apollo.",
  "* Each state of the human mind has some parable in the physical creation by which it is shadowed forth; nor is it only artists and poets, but even the most abstract thinkers that have drawn from this source. Lively activity we name fire; time is a stream that rolls on, sweeping all before it; eternity is a circle; a mystery is hid in midnight gloom, and truth dwells in the sun. Nay, I begin to believe that even the future destiny of the human race is prefigured in the dark oracular utterances of bodily creation.",
  "*Even the strongest minds cannot, with impunity, defy the prejudices of the age.",
  "* It is an unfailing maxim, that if policy enjoins an act of violence, its execution must never be entrusted to the violent.",
  "*Fortune, which had never forsaken him in his lifetime, favored the King of Sweden even in his death, with the rare privilege of falling in the fullness of his glory and an untarnished fame. By a timely death, his protecting genius rescued him from the inevitable fate of man - that of forgetting moderation in the intoxication of success, and justice in the plenitude of power.",
  "*All men without distinction, are allured by immediate advantages. Great minds alone are excited by distant good. So long as wisdom in its projects, calculates upon wisdom, or relies upon its own strength, it forms none by chimerical schemes - and runs the risk of making itself the laughter of the world. But it is certain of success, and can reckon upon aid and admiration, when it finds a place in its plans for barbarism, rapacity and superstition and can render the selifsh passions of mankind the executor of its purposes.",
  "*In circumstances where the law of force prevails, where security depends on power alone, the weakest party is naturally the most busy to place itself in a posture of defense.",
  "*Law can only be applied to foreseeable cases.",
  "* Self Confidence has always been the parent of great actions.",
  "*His Armies, weakened by defeat and defeat, dispirited by misfortune, had unlearned - under beaten generals - that warlike impetuosity which as it is the consequence, so it is the guarentee of success."
]