[
  "** We are nothing; what we search for is everything.",
  "** Wherein lies the danger, grows also the saving power. ",
  "* Being at one is god-like and good, but human, too human, the mania  Which insists there is only the One, one country, one truth, and one way.",
  "* You seek life, and a godly fire Gushes and gleams for you out of the earth, As, with shuddering long, you Hurl yourself down to the flames of the Etna.  So by a queens wanton whim Pearls were dissolved in wine- heed her not! What folly, poet, to cast your riches Into that bright and bubbling cup!  Yet still are you holy to me, as the might of the earth That bore you away, audaciously perishing! And I would follow the hero into the depths Did love not hold me.",
  "* The earth with yellow pears And overgrown with roses wild Upon the pond is bent, And swans divine, With kisses drunk You drop your heads In the sublimely sobering water. But where, with winter come, am I To find, alas, the floweres, and where The sunshine And the shadow of the world? Cold the walls stand And the wordless, in the wind The weathercocks are rattling.",
  "** He who has thought most deeply loves what is most alive.",
  "* Now we were standing close to the summits rim, gazing out into the endless East.",
  "* What is all that men have done and thought over thousands of years, compared with one moment of love. But in all Nature, too, it is what is nearest to perfection, what is most divinely beautiful! There all stairs lead from the threshold of life. From there we come, to there we go.",
  "* What is the wisdom of a book compared with the wisdom of an angel?",
  "* I call on Fate to give me back my soul.",
  "* It was not delight, not wonder that arose among us, it was the peace of heaven.  A thousand times have I said it to her and to myself: the most beautiful is also the most sacred. And such was everything in her. Like her singing, even so was her life.",
  "* Before either of us knew it, we belonged to each other."
]