[
  "* Extreme states of being, whether individual or collective, were once purposefully motivated. Some of those purposes no longer have meaning (expiation, salvation). The well-being of communities is no longer sought through means of doubtful effectiveness, but directly, through action. Under these conditions, extreme states of being fell into the domain of the arts, and not without a certain disadvantage. Literature (fiction) took the place of what had formerly been the spiritual life; poetry (the disorder of words) that of real states of trance. Art constituted a small free domain, outside action: to gain freedom it had to renounce the real world. This is a heavy price to pay, and most writers dream of recovering a lost reality. They must then pay in another sense, by renouncing freedom.",
  "* It is clear that the world is purely parodic, in other words, that each thing seen is the parody of another, or is the same thing in a deceptive form.",
  "* Love then screams in my own throat; I am the Jesuve, the filthy parody of the torrid and blinding sun.",
  "* The big toe is the most Ape|ape}} (chimpanzee, orangutan or gibbon).",
  "* The human foot is commonly subjected to grotesque tortures that deform it and make it rickety. In an imbecilic way it is doomed to corns, calluses, and bunions.",
  "* Mans secret horror of his foot is one of the explanations for the tendency to conceal its length and form as much as possible. Heels of greater or lesser height, depending on the sex, distract from the foots low and flat character. Besides the uneasiness is often confused with a sexual uneasiness; this is especially striking among the Chinese who, after having atrophied the feet of women, situate them at the most excessive point of deviance. The husband himself must not see the nude feet of his wife, and it is incorrect and immoral in general to look at the feet of women. Catholic confessors, adapting themselves to this aberration, ask their Chinese penitents \"if they have not looked at womens feet.",
  "* Love expresses a need for sacrifice each unity must lose itself in some other which exceeds it. In erotic frenzy the being is led to tear itself apart and lose itself.",
  "* There is no communication more profound,\u201d he claims. \u201c[T]wo beings are lost in a convulsion that binds them together. But they only communicate when losing a part of themselves. Communication ties them together with wounds, where their unity and integrity dissipate in fever.",
  "* Anyone wanting slyly to avoid suffering identifies with the entirety of the universe, judges each thing as if he were it. In the same way, he imagines, at bottom, that he will never die. We receive these hazy illusions like a narcotic necessary to bear life. But what happens to us when, disintoxicated, we learn what we are? Lost among babblers in a night in which we can only hate the appearance of light which comes from babbling. The self-acknowledged suffering of the disintoxicated is the subject of this book.",
  "* We have in fact only two certainties in this world\u2014that we are not everything and that we will die. To be conscious of not being everything, as one is of being mortal, is nothing. But if we are without a narcotic, an unbreathable void reveals itself. I wanted to be everything, so that falling into this void, I might summon my courage and say to myself: \u201cI am ashamed of having wanted to be everything, for I see now that it was to sleep.\u201d From that moment begins a singular experience. The mind moves in a strange world where anguish and ecstasy coexist.",
  "* The analysis of laughter had opened to me points of contact between the fundamentals of a communal and disciplined emotional knowledge and those of discursive knowledge.",
  "* By inner experience I understand that which one usually calls mystical experience: the states of ecstasy, of rapture, at least of meditated emotion. But I am thinking less of confessional experience, to which one has had to adhere up to now, than of an experience laid bare, free of ties, even of an origin, of any confession whatever. This is why I don\u2019t like the word mystical.",
  "* Experience is, in fever and anguish, the putting into question (to the test) of that which a man knows of being. Should he in this fever have any apprehension whatsoever, he cannot say: \u201cI have seen God, the absolute, or the depths of the universe\u201d; he can only say \u201cthat which I have seen eludes understanding\u201d\u2014and God, the absolute, the depths of the universe are nothing if they are not categories of the understanding.If I said decisively, \u201cI have seen God,\u201d that which I see would change. Instead of the inconceivable unknown\u2014wildly free before me, leaving me wild and free before it\u2014there would be a dead object and the thing of the theologian, to which the unknown would be subjugated.",
  "* Inner experience, unable to have principles either in dogma (a moral attitude), or in science (knowledge can be neither its goal nor its origin), or in a search of enriching states (an experimental, aesthetic attitude), it cannot have any other concern nor other goal than itself. Opening myself to inner experience, I have placed in it all value and authority. Henceforth I can have no other value, no other authority (in the realm of mind). Value and authority imply the discipline of a method, the existence of a community.I call experience a voyage to the end of the possible of man. Anyone may choose not to embark on this voyage, but if he does embark on it, this supposes the negation of the authorities, the existing values which limit the possible. By virtue of the fact that it is negation of other values, other authorities, experience, having a positive existence, becomes itself positively value and authority.Inner experience has always had objectives other than itself in which one invested value and authority. \u2026 If God, knowledge, and suppression of pain were to cease to be in my eyes convincing objectives, \u2026 would inner experience from that moment seem empty to me, henceforth impossible without justification? ...I received the answer [from Blanchot]: experience itself is authority.",
  "* The advance of intelligence diminished, as a secondary consequence, the \u201cpossible\u201d in a realm which appeared foreign to intelligence: that of inner experience.To say \u201cdiminished\u201d is even to say too little. The development of intelligence leads to a drying up of life which, in return, has narrowed intelligence. It is only if I state this principle: \u201cinner experience itself is authority\u201d that I emerge from this impotence.",
  "* Inner experience \u2026 is not easily accessible and, viewed from the outside by intelligence, it would even be necessary to see in it a sum of distinct operations, some intellectual, others aesthetic, yet others moral. \u2026 It is only from within, lived to the point of terror, that it appears to unify that which discursive thought must separate.",
  "* Philosophy \u2026 finds itself to be no longer anything but the heir to a fabulous mystical theology, but missing a God and wiping the slate clean.",
  "* The difficulty\u2014that contestation must be done in the name of an authority\u2014is resolved this: I contest in the name of contestation what experience itself is.",
  "* We reach ecstasy by a contestation of knowledge. Were I to stop at ecstasy and grasp it, in the end I would define it.",
  "* I remain in intolerable non-knowledge, which has no other way out than ecstasy itself.",
  "* It is through an \u201cintimate cessation of all intellectual operations\u201d that the mind is laid bare. If nor, discourse maintains it in its little complacency. \u2026  The difference between inner experience and philosophy resides principally in this: that in experience, \u2026 what counts is no longer the statement of wind, but the wind.",
  "* Concern for this or that limited good can sometimes lead to the summit... But this occurs in a roundabout way. Moral ends \u2026 are distinct from any excesses they occasion. States of glory and moments of sacredness surpass results intentionally sought.",
  "* Nothing radically changes when instead of human satisfaction, we think of the satisfaction of some heavenly being! God\u2019s person displaces the problem and does not abolish it.",
  "* An extreme, unconditional human yearning was expressed for the first time by Nietzsche independently of moral goals or of serving God. \u2026 Ardor that doesn\u2019t address a dramatically articulated moral obligation is a paradox. \u2026 If we stop looking at states of ardor as simply preliminary to other and subsequent conditions grasped as beneficial, the state I propose seems a pure play of lightning, merely an empty consummation. Lacking any relation to material benefits such as power or the growth of the state (or of God or a Church or a party), this consuming can\u2019t even be comprehended. \u2026 I\u2019ll have to face the same difficulties as Nietzsche\u2014putting God and the good behind him, though all ablaze with the ardor possessed by those who lay down their lives for God or the good. \u2026 I\u2019ll admit that moral investigations that aim to surpass the good lead first of all to disorder.",
  "* In the helter-skelter of this book, I didn\u2019t develop my views as theory. In fact, I even believe that efforts of that kind are tainted with ponderousness. Nietzsche wrote \u201cwith his blood,\u201d and criticizing, or, better, experiencing him means pouring out one\u2019s lifeblood. \u2026 It was only with my life that I wrote the Nietzsche book that I had planned.",
  "* What causes [fragmentation] if not a need to act that specializes us and limits us to the horizon of a particular activity? Even if it turns out to be for the general interest (which generally isn\u2019t true), the activity that subordinates each of our aspects to a specific result suppresses our being as an entirety. Whoever acts substitutes a particular end for what he or she is, as a total being.",
  "* I cannot exist entirely except when somehow I go beyond the stage of action. Otherwise I\u2019m a soldier, a professional, a man of learning, not a \u201ctotal human being.\u201d The fragmentary state of humanity is basically the same as the choice of an object. When you limit your desires to possessing political power, for instance, you act and know what you have to do. \u2026 You insert your existence advantageously into time. Each of your moments becomes useful. With each moment, the possibility is given you to advance to some chosen goal, and your time becomes a march toward that goal\u2014what\u2019s normally called living. \u2026 Every action makes you a fragmentary existence. I hold on to my nature as an entirety only by refusing to act\u2014or at least by denying the superiority of time, which is reserved for action.",
  "* Humanity-attached-to-the-task-of-changing-the-world, which is only a single and fragmentary aspect of humanity, will itself be changed in humanity-as-entirety.",
  "* Life is whole only when it isn\u2019t subordinate to a specific object that exceeds it. In this way, the essence of entirety is freedom.",
  "* Entirety exists within me as exuberance \u2026 in empty longing \u2026 in \u2026 the desire to burn with desire.",
  "* It is the positive practice of freedom, not the negative struggle against particular oppression, that has lifted me above a mutilated existence.",
  "* The total person is first disclosed \u2026 in areas of life that are lived frivolously.",
  "* Existence as entirety remains beyond any one meaning\u2014and it is the conscious presence of humanness in the world inasmuch as this is nonmeaning, having nothing to do other than be what it is, no longer able to go beyond itself or give itself some kind of meaning through action.",
  "* An intention that rejects what has no meaning in fact is a rejection of the entirety of being.",
  "* If I give up the viewpoint of action, my perfect nakedness is revealed to me.",
  "* The preceding criticism \u2026 justifies the following definition of the entire human: human existence as the life of \u201cunmotivated\u201d celebration, celebration in all meaning of the word: laughter, dancing, orgy, the rejection of subordination, and sacrifice that scornfully puts aside any consideration of ends, property, and morality.",
  "* In previous conditions, extreme states came under the jurisdiction of the arts... People substituted writing (fiction) for what was once spiritual life, poetry (chaotic words) for actual ecstasies. Art constitutes a minor free zone outside action, paying for its freedom by giving up the real world. A heavy price!",
  "* [Zarathustra] never abandoned the watchword of not having any end, not serving a cause, because, as he knew, causes pluck off the wings we fly with.",
  "* [Nietzsche\u2019s doctrine of the eternal return] is what makes moments caught up in the immanence of return suddenly appear as ends. In every other system, don\u2019t forget, these moments are viewed as means: Every moral system proclaims that \u201ceach moment of life ought to be motivated.\u201d Return unmotivates the moment and frees life of ends.",
  "* Human entirety can only be what it is when giving up the addiction to others\u2019 ends.",
  "* To choose evil is to choose freedom\u2014\u201cfreedom, emancipation from all restraint.\u201d",
  "* We can\u2019t rely on anything. Except ourselves. Ludicrous responsibility devolves on us, overwhelms us. In every regard, right up the present, people always have relied on each other\u2014or God.",
  "* All eroticism has a sacramental character.",
  "* Inevitably linked with the moment of climax, there is a minor rupture suggestive of death; and conversely the idea of death may play a part in setting sensuality in motion.",
  "* There is no better way to know death than to link it with some licentious image."
]