[
  "* For Fascism...the State and the individual are one, or better, perhaps, \"State\" and \"individual\" are terms that are inseparable in a necessary synthesis.",
  "*Fascism as a consequence of its Marxian and Sorelian patrimony . . . conjoined with the influence of contemporary Italian idealism, through which Fascist thought attained maturity, conceives philosophy as praxis.",
  "*The Fascist, on the other hand, conceives philosophy as a philosophy of practice (\u201dpraxis\u201d). That concept was the product of certain Marxist and Sorellian inspirations (many Fascists and the Duce, himself, received their first intellectual education in the school of Marx and Sorel)\u2014as well as the influence of contemporary Italian idealistic doctrines from which Fascist mentality drew substance and achieved maturity.",
  "*It is necessary to distinguish between socialism and socialism\u2014in fact, between idea and idea of the same socialist conception, in order to distinguish among them those that are inimical to Fascism. It is well known that Sorellian syndicalism, out of which the thought and the political method of Fascism emerged\u2014conceived itself the genuine interpretation of Marxist communism. The dynamic conception of history, in which force as violence functions as an essential, is of unquestioned Marxist origin. Those notions flowed into other currents of contemporary thought, that have themselves, via alternative routes, arrived at a vindication of the form of State\u2014implacable, but absolutely rational\u2014that finds historic necessity in the very spiritual dynamism through which it realizes itself.",
  "*Of which liberalism does one wish to speak? I distinguish two principal forms of  Mazzini with a criticism, that I maintain, is immortal. But there is another liberalism, that matured in Italian and German thought, that holds entirely absurd this view of the antagonism between the State and the individual.",
  "*In the Renaissance there is much light, yes, and there is much in it with which Italians may share national pride. But there is much darkness. For the Renaissance is also the age of individualism, that through the splendid visions of poetry and art brought the Italian nation to the indifference, skepticism, and distracted cynicism of those who have nothing to defend, not in their family, their Fatherland, or in the world where every human personality conscious of its own value and personal dignity invest itself.",
  "*The authority of the State was not a product, but a presupposition. It could not depend on the people, in fact, the people depended on the State\u2026 The Fascist state, on the other hand, is a popular state, and, in that sense, a democratic State par excellence\u2026 Every citizen shares a relationship with the State and is so intimate that the State exists only in so far as it is made to exist by the citizen.",
  "*The authority of the State is not subject to negotiation, or compromise, or to divide its terrain with other moral or religious principles that might interfere in consciousness. The authority of the State has force and is true authority if, within consciousness, it is entirely unconditioned.",
  "*The merit of Fascism was that it courageously and vigorously opposed itself to the prejudices of contemporary liberalism\u2014to affirm that the liberty proposed by liberalism serves neither the people nor the individual.",
  "* Gentlemen: Fascism is a party, a political doctrine. But Fascism, while being a party, a political doctrine is above all a total conception of life. So the fascist, whether his is writing in newspapers or reading them, going about his private life or talking to others, looking to the future or remembering the past and the past of his people, must always remember he is a Fascist. Thus he fulfills what can really be said to be the main characteristic of Fascism, to take life seriously. Life is toil, is effort, is sacrifice, is hard work.",
  "* How many times has Fascism been accused with obtuse malevolence of barbarity? Well yes: once you understand the true significance of this barbarity we will boast of it, as the expression of the healthy energies which shatter false and baleful idols, and restore the health of the nation within the power of a State conscious of its sovereign rights which are its duties."
]