[
  "* Man cannot be free if he does not know that he is subject to necessity, because his freedom is always won in his never wholly successful attempts to liberate himself from necessity.",
  "* It is, in fact, far easier to act under conditions of tyranny than it is to think.",
  "* It is, I think, safe to say that nothing was more alien to the minds of the scientists, who brought about the most radical and most rapid revolutionary process the world has ever seen, than any will to power. Nothing was more remote than any wish to \u2018conquer space\u2019 and to go to the moon. It was indeed their search for \u2018true reality\u2019 that led them to lose confidence in appearances, in the phenomena as they reveal themselves of their own accord to human sense and reason. They were inspired by an extraordinary love of harmony and lawfulness which taught them that they would have to step outside any merely given sequence or series of occurrences if they wanted to discover the overall beauty and order of the whole, that is, the universe.",
  "* In politics, love is a stranger, and when it intrudes upon it nothing is being achieved except hypocrisy. All the characteristics you stress in the Negro people: their beauty, their capacity for joy, their warmth, and their humanity, are well-known characteristics of all oppressed people. They grow out of suffering and they are the proudest possession of all pariahs. Unfortunately, they have never survived the hour of liberation by even five minutes. Hatred and love belong together, and they are both destructive; you can afford them only in private and, as a people, only so long as you are not free",
  "* What makes it so plausible to assume that hypocrisy is the vice of vices is that integrity can indeed exist under the cover of all other vices except this one. Only crime and the criminal, it is true, confront us with the perplexity of radical evil; but only the hypocrite is really rotten to the core.",
  "* Political questions are far too serious to be left to the politicians.",
  "* In a head-on clash between violence and power, the outcome is hardly in doubt. Nowhere is the self-defeating factor in the victory of violence over power more evident than in the use of terror to maintain domination, about whose weird successes and eventual failures we know perhaps more than any generation before us. Violence can destroy power; it is utterly incapable of creating it.",
  "* The most radical revolutionary will become a conservative the day after the revolution.",
  "* The law of progress holds that everything now must be better than what was there before. Don\u2019t you see if you want something better, and better, and better, you lose the good. The good is no longer even being measured.",
  "* The moment we no longer have a free press, anything can happen. What makes it possible for a totalitarian or any other dictatorship to rule is that people are not informed; how can you have an opinion if you are not informed? If everybody always lies to you, the consequence is not that you believe the lies, but rather that nobody believes anything any longer. This is because lies, by their very nature, have to be changed, and a lying government has constantly to rewrite its own history. On the receiving end you get not only one lie  \u2014 a lie which you could go on for the rest of your days  \u2014 but you get a great number of lies, depending on how the political wind blows. And a people that no longer can believe anything cannot make up its mind. It is deprived not only of its capacity to act but also of its capacity to think and to judge. And with such a people you can then do what you please.",
  "* The sad truth of the matter is that most evil is done by people who never made up their minds to be or do either evil or good.",
  "* Ive begun so late, really only in recent years, to truly love the world... Out of gratitude, I want to call my book on political theories Amor Mundi.",
  "* The cultural treasures of the past, believed to be dead, are being made to speak, in the course of which it turns out that they propose things altogether different than what had been thought.",
  "* The phenomenon of the will [in Epictetus ] [...] a different mental ability whose chief characteristic is that it speaks an imperative even when it commands nothing but our ability to think. The goal is to annihilate reality insofar it concerns me.",
  "* In its flight from death, the craving for permanence clings to the very things sure to be lost in death.",
  "* Before mass leaders seize the power to fit reality to their lies, their propaganda is marked by its extreme contempt for facts as such, for in their opinion fact depends entirely on the power of man who can fabricate it.",
  "*In an ever-changing, incomprehensible world the masses had reached the point where they would, at the same time, believe everything and nothing, think that everything was possible and that nothing was true. [...] under such conditions, one could make people believe the most fantastic statements one day, and trust that if the next day they were given irrefutable proof of their falsehood, they would take refuge in cynicism; instead of deserting the leaders who had lied to them, they would protest that they had known all along that the statement was a lie and would admire the leaders for their superior tactical cleverness.",
  "* The totalitarian attempt at global conquest and total domination has been the destructive way out of all impasses. Its victory may coincide with the destruction of humanity; wherever it has ruled, it has begun to destroy the essence of man. Yet to turn our backs on the destructive forces of the century is of little avail.  The trouble is that our period has so strangely intertwined the good with the bad that without the imperialists \"expansion for expansions sake,\" the world might never have become one; without the bourgeoisies political device of \"power for powers sake,\" the extent of human strength might never have been discovered; without the fictitious world of totalitarian movements, in which with unparalleled clarity the essential uncertainties of our time have been spelled out, we might have been driven to our doom without ever becoming aware of what has been happening.  And if it is true that in the final stages of totalitarianism an absolute evil appears (absolute because it can no longer be deduced from humanly comprehensible motives), it is also true that without it we might never have known the truly radical nature of Evil.",
  "* Persecution of powerless or power-losing groups may not be a very pleasant spectacle, but it does not spring from human meanness alone. What makes men obey or tolerate real power and, on the other hand, hate people who have wealth without power, is the rational instinct that power has a certain function and is of some general use. Even exploitation and oppression still make society work and establish some kind of order. Only wealth without power or aloofness without a policy are felt to be parasitical, useless, revolting, because such conditions cut all the threads which tie men together. Wealth which does not exploit lacks even the relationship which exists between exploiter and exploited; aloofness without policy does not imply even the minimum concern of the oppressor for the oppressed.",
  "* A mixture of gullibility and cynicism had been an outstanding characteristic of mob mentality before it became an everyday phenomenon of masses. In an ever-changing, incomprehensible, world the masses had reached the point where they would, at the same time, believe everything and nothing, think that everything is possible and that nothing was true. The mixture in itself was remarkable enough, because it spelled the end of the illusion that gullibility was a weakness of unsuspecting primitive souls and cynism the vice of superior and refined minds. Mass propaganda discovered that its audience was ready at all times to believe the worst, no matter how absurd, and did not particularly object to being deceived because it held every statement to be a lie anyhow. The totalitarian mass leaders based their propaganda on the correct psychological assumption that, under such conditions, one could make people believe the most fantastic statements one day, and trust if the next day they were given irrefutable proof of their falsehood, they would take refuge in cynicism; instead of deserting the leaders who had lied to them, they would protest that they had known all along the statement was a lie and would admire the leaders for their superior tactical cleverness.",
  "* The Nazis were \u2018convinced that evil-doing in our time has a morbid force of attraction,\u2019 Bolshevik assurances inside and outside Russia that they do not recognize ordinary moral standards have become a mainstay of Communist propaganda, and experience has proven time and again that the propaganda value of evil deeds and general contempt for moral standards is independent of mere self-interest, supposedly the most powerful psychological factor in politics.",
  "* The totalitarian movements aim at and succeed in organizing masses\u2014not classes, like the old interest parties of the Continental nation-states; not citizens with opinions about, interests in, the handling of public affairs, like the parties of Anglo-Saxon countries.",
  "* Hitler never intended to defend \u2018the West\u2019 against Bolshevism but always remained ready to join \u2018the Reds\u2019 for the destruction of the West, even in the middle of the struggle against Soviet Russia.",
  "* The only man for whom Hitler had \u2018unqualified respect\u2019 was \u2018Stalin the genius\u2019, and while in the case of Stalin and the Russian regime we do not\u2026 have the rich documentary material that is available for Germany, we nevertheless know since Khrushchev\u2019s speech before the Twentieth Party Congress that Stalin trusted only one man and that was Hitler.",
  "* What will happen once the authentic mass man takes over, we do not know yet, although it may be a fair guess that he will have more in common with the meticulous, calculated correctness of Himmler than with the hysterical fanaticism of Hitler, will more resemble the stubborn dullness of Molotov than the sensual vindictive cruelty of Stalin.",
  "* Real power begins where secrecy begins.",
  "* The concentration camps, by making death itself anonymous (making it impossible to find out whether a prisoner is dead or alive), robbed death of its meaning as the end of a fulfilled life. In a sense they took away the individual\u2019s own death, proving that henceforth nothing belonged to him and he belonged to no one. His death merely set a seal on the fact that he had never existed.",
  "* The ideal subject of totalitarian rule is not the convinced Nazi or the convinced Communist, but people for whom the distinction between fact and fiction (i.e., the reality of experience) and the distinction between true and false (i.e., the standards of thought) no longer exist.",
  "* The essence of totalitarian government, and perhaps the nature of every bureaucracy, is to make functionaries and mere cogs in the administrative machinery out of men, and thus to dehumanise them.",
  "* The trouble with Eichmann was precisely that so many were like him, and that the many were neither perverted nor sadistic, that they were, and still are, terribly and terrifyingly normal. From the viewpoint of our legal institutions and of our moral standards of judgment, this normality was much more terrifying than all the atrocities put together.",
  "* [H]e was genuinely incapable of uttering a single sentence that was not a clich\u00e9.[\u2026] Eichmann, despite his rather bad memory, repeated word for word the same stock phrases and self-invented clich\u00e9s (when he did succeed in constructing a sentence of his own, he repeated it until it became a clich\u00e9) each time he referred to an incident or event of importance to him.[\u2026] The longer one listened to him, the more obvious it became that his inability to speak was closely connected with an inability to think, namely to think from the standpoint of somebody else. No communication was possible with him, not because he lied but because he was surrounded by the most reliable of all safeguards against the words and the presence of others, and hence against reality as such.",
  "* What stuck in the minds of these men who had become murderers was simply the notion of being involved in something historic, grandiose, unique (\"a great task that occurs once in two thousand years\"), which must therefore be difficult to bear. This was important, because the murderers were not sadists or killers by nature; on the contrary, a systematic effort was made to weed out all those who derived physical pleasure from what they did. The troops of the Einsatzgruppen had been drafted from the Armed S.S., a military unit with hardly more crimes in its record than any ordinary unit of the German Army, and their commanders had been chosen by Heydrich from the S.S. \u00e9lite with academic degrees. Hence the problem was how to overcome not so much their conscience as the animal pity by which all normal men are affected in the presence of physical suffering. The trick used by Himmler \u2014 who apparently was rather strongly afflicted by these instinctive reactions himself \u2014 was very simple and probably very effective; it consisted in turning these instincts around, as it were, in directing them toward the self. So that instead of saying: What horrible things I did to people!, the murderers would be able to say: What horrible things I had to watch in the pursuance of my duties, how heavily the task weighed upon my shoulders!",
  "* The case of the conscience of Eichmann, which is admittedly complicated but is by no means unique, is scarcely comparable to the case of the German generals, one of whom, when asked at Nuremberg, \"How was it possible that all of you honorable generals could continue to serve a murderer with such unquestioning loyalty?,\" replied that it was \"not the task of a soldier to act as judge over his supreme commander. Let history do that or God in Heaven.\"",
  "*Eichmann, much less intelligent and without any education to speak of, at least dimly realized that it was not an order but a law which had turned them all into criminals. The distinction between an order and the F\u00fchrers word was that the latters validity was not limited in time and space, which is the outstanding characteristic of the former. This is also the true reason why the F\u00fchrers order for the Final Solution was followed by a huge shower of regulations and directives, all drafted by expert lawyers and legal advisors, not by mere administrators; this order, in contrast to ordinary orders, was treated as a law. Needless to add, the resulting legal paraphernalia, far from being a mere symptom of German pedantry and thoroughness, served most effectively to give the whole business its outward appearance of legality.And just as the law in civilized countries assumes that the voice of conscience tells everybody, \"Thou shalt not kill,\" even though mans natural desires and inclinations may at times be murderous, so the law of Hitlers land demanded that the voice of conscience tell everybody: \"Thou shalt kill,\" although the organizers of the massacres knew full well that murder is against the normal desires and inclinations of most people.  Evil in the Third Reich had lost the quality by which most people recognize it \u2014 the quality of temptation.",
  "* For the lesson of such stories [of resistance to Nazi atrocities] is simple and within everybodys grasp. Politically speaking, it is that under conditions of terror, most people will comply but some people will not, just as the lesson of the countries to which the Final Solution was proposed is that \"it could happen\" in most places but it did not happen everywhere. Humanly speaking, no more is required, and no more can reasonably be asked, for this planet to remain a place fit for human habitation.",
  "* The trouble with Eichmann was precisely that so many were like him, and that the many were neither perverted nor sadistic, that they were, and still are, terribly and terrifyingly normal. From the viewpoint of our legal institutions and of our moral standards of judgment, this normality was much more terrifying than all the atrocities put together, for it implied \u2014 as had been said at Nuremberg over and over again by the defendants and their counsels \u2014 that this new type of criminal, who is in actual fact hostis generis humani, commits his crimes under circumstances that make it well-nigh impossible for him to know or to feel that he is doing wrong.",
  "* No punishment has ever possessed enough power of deterrence to prevent the commission of crimes. On the contrary, whatever the punishment, once a specific crime has appeared for the first time, its reappearance is more likely than its initial emergence could ever have been.",
  "* It is not murder which is forgiven but the killer, his person as it appears in circumstances and intentions. The trouble with the Nazi criminals was precisely that they renounced voluntarily all personal qualities, as if nobody were left to be either punished or forgiven. They protested time and again that they had never done anything out of their own initiative, that they had no intentions whatsoever, good or bad, and that they only obeyed orders.",
  "* The chief reason warfare is still with us is neither a secret death-wish of the human species, nor an irrepressible instinct of aggression, nor, finally and more plausibly, the serious economic and social dangers inherent in disarmament, but the simple fact that no substitute for this final arbiter in international affairs has yet appeared on the political scene.",
  "* The point, as Marx saw it, is that dreams never come true.",
  "* Power and violence are opposites; where the one rules absolutely, the other is absent. Violence appears where power is in jeopardy, but left to its own course it ends in powers disappearance.",
  "* The defiance of established authority, religious and secular, social and political, as a world-wide phenomenon may well one day be accounted the outstanding event of the last decade.",
  "*Mans urge for change and his need for stability have always balanced and checked each other, and our current vocabulary, which distinguishes between two factions, the progressives and the conservatives, indicates a state of affairs in which this balance has been thrown out of order. No civilization \u2014 the man-made artifact to house successive generations  \u2014 would ever have been possible without a framework of stability, to provide the wherein for the flux of change. Foremost among the stabilizing factors, more enduring than customs, manners and traditions, are the legal systems that regulate our life in the world and our daily affairs with each other.",
  "* Revolutionaries do not make revolutions! The revolutionaries are those who know when power is lying in the street and when they can pick it up. Armed uprising by itself has never yet led to revolution.",
  "* For the trouble with lying and decieving is that their efficiency depends entirely upon a clear notion of the truth that the liar and deceiver wishes to hide. In this sense, truth, even if it does not prevail in public, possesses an ineradicable primacy over all falsehoods.",
  "* Clich\u00e9s, stock phrases, adherence to conventional, standardized codes of expression and conduct have the socially recognized function of protecting us against reality.",
  "* Could the activity of thinking as such, the habit of examining whatever happens to come to pass or to attract attention, regardless of results and specific content, could this activity be among the conditions that make men abstain from evil-doing?",
  "* It was mathematics, the non-empirical science par excellence, wherein the mind appears to play only with itself, that turned out to be the science of sciences, delivering the key to those laws of nature and the universe that are concealed by appearances.",
  "* Metaphysical fallacies contain the only clues we have to what thinking means to those who engage in it.",
  "* If [...] the ability to tell right from wrong should turn out to have anything to do with the ability to think, then we must be able to \"demand\" its exercise from every sane person, no matter how erudite or ignorant, intelligent or stupid, he may happen to be. Kant\u2014in this respect almost alone among the philosophers\u2014was much bothered by the common opinion that philosophy is only for the few, precisely because of its moral implications.",
  "* Kant ... discovered \u201cthe scandal of reason,\u201d that is the fact that our mind is not capable of certain and verifiable knowledge regarding matters and questions that it nevertheless cannot help thinking about.",
  "* Kant  was also quite aware that \"the urgent need\" of reason is both different from and \"more than mere quest and desire for knowledge.\" Hence, the distinguishing of the two faculties, reason and intellect, coincides with a distinction between two altogether different mental activities, thinking and knowing.",
  "* Kant stated defensively that he had \"found it necessary to deny knowledge. . . to make room for faith,\" but he had not made room for faith; he had made room for thought, and he had not \"denied knowledge\" but separated knowledge from thinking.",
  "* The need of reason is not inspired by the quest for truth but by the quest for meaning. And truth and meaning are not the same. The basic fallacy, taking precedence over all specific metaphysical fallacies, is to interpret meaning on the model of truth.",
  "* The emotions I feel are no more meant to be shown in their unadulterated state than the inner organs by which we live.",
  "* If the inner psychic ground of our individual appearance were not always the same, there could be no science of psychology, which qua science relies on a psychic \u201cinside we are all alike,\u201d just as the science of physiology and medicine relies on the sameness of our inner organs. [\u2026] The monstrous sameness and pervasive ugliness so highly characteristic of the findings of modern psychology, and contrasting so obviously with the enormous variety and richness of overt human conduct, witness to the radical difference between the inside and the outside of the human body.",
  "* [\u2026]the simple-minded positivism that believes it has found a firm ground of certainty if it only excludes all mental phenomena from consideration and holds fast to observable facts.",
  "* It is characteristic of the Oxford school of criticism to understand these [metaphysical] fallacies as logical non sequiturs\u2014as though philosophers throughout the centuries had been, for reasons unknown, just a bit too stupid to discover the elementary flaws in their arguments. The truth of the matter is that elementary logical mistakes are quite rare in the history of philosophy; what appear to be errors in logic to minds disencumbered of questions that have been uncritically dismissed as \u201cmeaningless\u201d are usually caused by semblances, unavoidable for beings whose whole existence is determined by appearance. Hence, In our context the only relevant question is whether the semblances are inauthentic or authentic ones, whether they are caused by dogmatic beliefs and arbitrary assumptions, mere mirages that disappear upon closer inspection, or whether they are inherent in the paradoxical condition of a living being that, though itself part of the world of appearances, is in possession of a faculty, the ability to think, that permits the mind to withdraw from the world without ever being able to leave it or transcend it.",
  "* If a given science accidentally reached its goal, this would by no means stop the workers in the field, who would be driven past their goal by the sheer momentum of the illusion of unlimited progress.",
  "* Thinking withdraws radically and for its own sake from this world and its evidential nature, whereas science profits from a possible withdrawal for the sake of specific results.",
  "* To expect truth to come from thinking signifies that we mistake the need to think with the urge to know.",
  "* Kant [...] stated that he had \u201cfound it necessary to deny knowledge [\u2026] to make room for faith,\u201d but all he had \u201cdenied\u201d was knowledge of things that are unknowable, and he had not made room for faith but for thought.",
  "* Since it is always the same person whose mind thinks, wills, and judges, the autonomous nature of these activities has created great difficulties. Reason\u2019s inability to move the will, plus the fact that thinking can only \u201cunderstand\u201d what is past what neither remove it nor \u201crejuvenate it\u201d \u2026 have led to the various doctrines asserting the mind\u2019s impotence and the force of the irrational, in brief to Hume\u2019s famous dictum that \u201cReason is and ought only to be the slave of the passions,\u201d that is, to a rather simple-minded reversal of the Platonic notion of reason\u2019s uncontested rulership in the household of the soul. What is so remarkable in all these theories and doctrines is their implicit monism, the claim that behind the obvious multiplicity of the world\u2019s appearances and, even more pertinently to our context, behind the obvious plurality of man\u2019s faculties and abilities, there must exist a oneness  \u2014 the old hen pan, \u201cthe all is one\u201d \u2014 either a single source or a single ruler.",
  "* Totalitarianism begins in contempt for what you have. The second step is the notion: \u201cThings must change \u2014 no matter how, Anything is better than what we have.\u201d Totalitarian rulers organize this kind of mass sentiment, and by organizing it articulate it, and by articulating it make the people somehow love it. They were told before, thou shalt not kill; and they didn\u2019t kill. Now they are told, thou shalt kill; and although they think it\u2019s very difficult to kill, they do it because it\u2019s now part of the code of behavior. They learn whom to kill and how to kill and how to do it together. This is the much talked about Gleichschaltung  \u2014 the coordination process. You are coordinated not with the powers that be, but with your neighbor \u2014 coordinated with the majority. But instead of communicating with the other you are now glued to him. And you feel of course marvelous. Totalitarianism appeals to the very dangerous emotional needs of people who live in complete isolation and in fear of one another.",
  "* The moment we no longer have a free press, anything can happen. What makes it possible for a totalitarian or any other dictatorship to rule is that people are not informed; how can you have an opinion if you are not informed? If everybody always lies to you, the consequence is not that you believe the lies, but rather that nobody believes anything any longer. This is because lies, by their very nature, have to be changed, and a lying government has constantly to rewrite its own history. On the receiving end you get not only one lie  \u2014 a lie which you could go on for the rest of your days  \u2014 but you get a great number of lies, depending on how the political wind blows. And a people that no longer can believe anything cannot make up its mind. It is deprived not only of its capacity to act but also of its capacity to think and to judge. And with such a people you can then do what you please.",
  "* The main characteristic of any event is that it has not been foreseen. We don\u2019t know the future but everybody acts into the future. Nobody knows what he is doing because the future is being done, action is being done by a \u201cwe\u201d and not an \u201cI.\u201d Only if I were the only one acting could I foretell the consequences of what I\u2019m doing. What actually happens is entirely contingent, and contingency is indeed one of the biggest factors in all history.",
  "* Nobody knows what is going to happen because so much depends on an enormous number of variables, on simple hazard. On the other hand if you look at history retrospectively, then, even though it was contingent, you can tell a story that makes sense\u2026. Jewish history, for example, in fact had its ups and downs, its, enmities and its friendships, as every history of all people has. The notion that there is one unilinear history is of course false. But if you look at it after the experience of Auschwitz it looks as though all of history\u2014or at least history since the Middle Ages  \u2014 had no other aim than Auschwitz\u2026. This, is the real problem of every philosophy of history how is it possible that in retrospect it always looks as though it couldn\u2019t have happened otherwise?"
]