[
  "*Suffering is the ancient law of love; there is no quest without pain; there is no lover who is not also a martyr. ",
  "*An unloving heart can no more understand a love-filled speaker than a German an Italian. ",
  "* Be steadfast and never rest content until you have obtained the now of eternity as your present possession in this life, so far as this is possible to human infirmity. ",
  "* In this wild mountain region of the where beyond God there is an abyss full of play and feeling for all pure spirits.",
  "* It is hidden for everything that is not God, except for those with whom he wants to share Himself.",
  "* In a detached person nothing merely temporal is born in possessiveness. His eyes are opened. He becomes fully aware and, receiving his blessed existence and life, is one with Him; for all things are here one in the thumb|right|He becomes fully aware and, receiving his blessed existence and life, is one with Him; for all things are here one in the One One. ",
  "* No one can explain this to another just thumb|right|In this wild mountain region of the where beyond God there is an abyss full of play and feeling for all pure spirits with words. thumb|right|No one can explain this to another just with words. One knows it by experiencing it One knows it by experiencing it. ",
  "* In order to attain perfect union, we must divest ourselves of God...The common belief about God, that He is a great Taskmaster, whose function is to reward or punish, is cast out by perfect love; and in this sense the spiritual man does divest himself of God as conceived of by most people.",
  "* Eternity is life that is beyond time but includes within itself all time but without a before or after. And whoever is taken into the Eternal Nothing possesses all in all and has no before or after. Indeed a person taken within today would not have been there for a shorter period from the point of view of eternity than someone who had been taken thumb|right|Whoever is taken into the Eternal Nothing possesses all in all and has no before or after within a thousand years ago.",
  "* Now these people who are taken within, thumb|right|These people who are taken within, because of their boundless immanent oneness with God, see themselves as always and eternally existing because of their boundless immanent oneness with God, see themselves as always and eternally existing ",
  "* You and I do not meet on one branch or in one place. You make your way along one path and I along another. Your questions arise from human thinking, and I respond from a knowledge that is far beyond all human comprehension. thumb|right|You must give up human understanding if you want to reach the goal, because the truth is known by not knowing You must give up human understanding if you want to reach the goal, because the truth is known by not knowing ",
  "* After this the disciple turned again in all seriousness to eternal Truth and asked for the power to discern by outward appearance a person who was truly detached. He asked thus. Eternal Truth, how do such people act in relation to various things?Answer: They withdraw from themselves, and all things withdraw along with this.Question: How do they conduct themselves with respect to time?Answer: They exist in an ever-present now, thumb|right|They exist in an ever-present now, free of selfish intentions free of selfish intentions, and they seek to act perfectly in the smallest thing as in the greatest. ",
  "* Question: Paul says that no law is made for the just.Answer: Just persons, by becoming so, conduct themselves more submissively than other people because they understand from within, in the source, what is proper outwardly for everyone, and they view all things accordingly. The reason that they are unfettered is that they do (freely) out of an attitude of detachment what ordinary people do under compulsion.",
  "* Question: Is not the person who has been transported to interior detachment freed from external exercises?  Answer: One sees few people reach the condition you describe without their strength being wasted. The efforts of those who really achieve it affect them to the marrow. And so, when they realise what is to be done and left undone, they continue to practise the usual exercises, performing them more or less frequently as their strength and the occasion permit.  Question: Where do the pangs of conscience and other anxieties of seemingly good people come from, as well as the unrestrained latitude (of conscience) in other people?  Answer: Both types are focusing their attention on their own image but in different ways; the one group spiritually, the other bodily.",
  "* Question: Does a detached person remain unoccupied all the time, or what does he or she do?  Answer: The activity of really detached people lies in their becoming detached, and their achievement is to remain unoccupied because they remain calm in action and unconcerned about their achievements.  Question: What is their conduct toward their fellow human beings?  Answer: They enjoy the companionship of people, but without being compromised by them. They love them without attachment, and they show them sympathy without anxious concern - all in true freedom.Question: Is such a person required to go to confession?  Answer: The confession that is motivated by love is nobler than one motivated by necessity.  Question: What is such people\u2019s prayer like? Are they supposed to pray, too?  Answer: Their prayer is effective because they forestall the influence of the senses. God is spirit and knows whether this person has put an obstacle in the way or whether he or she has acted from selfish impulses. And then a light is enkindled in their highest power, which makes clear that God is the being, life and activity within them and that they are merely instruments.  Question: What are such a persons eating, drinking and sleeping like?  Answer: Externally, and in keeping with their sensuous nature, the outward person eats. Internally, however, they are as if not eating; otherwise, thumb|right|One does not arrive at the goal by asking questions. It is rather through detachment that one comes to this hidden truth they would be enjoying food and rest like an animal. This is also the case in other things pertaining to human existence.",
  "* Question: What is their external behaviour like?  Answer: They have few mannerisms, and they do not talk a lot; their words are simple and direct. They live modestly so that things pass through them without their involvement. They are composed in their use of the senses.  Question: Are all detached people like this?  Answer: More so or less so, depending on accidental circumstances. Essentially, however, they are the same.  Question: Do such people come to a full knowledge of the truth, or do they remain in the realm of opinion and imagining?Answer: Since they remain basically human, they continue to have opinions and imaginings. But because they have withdrawn from themselves into that which is, they have a knowledge of all truth; for this is truth itself and they ignore themselves. But let this be enough for you. thumb|right|It is important to realize that everyone has five kinds of self One does not arrive at the goal by asking questions. It is rather through detachment that one comes to this hidden truth.  Amen",
  "* Disciple:  Lord, what is true detachment?  Truth: Take note with careful discrimination of these two words: oneself and leave. If you know how to weigh these two words properly, testing their meaning thoroughly to their core and viewing them with true discernment, then you can quickly grasp the truth.Take, first of all, the first word -- oneself or myself -- and see what it is. It is important to realize that everyone has five kinds of self. The first self we have in common with a stone, and this is being. The second we share with plants, and this is growing. The third self we share with animals, and this is sensation. The fourth we share with all other human beings: we possess a common human nature in which all are one. The fifth - which belongs to a person exclusively as his or her own - is ones individual human self\u2026  Now what is it that leads people astray and robs them of happiness? It is exclusively this last self. Because of it a person turns outward, away from God and toward this self, when he or she should be returning inward. Thus they fashion their own selves according to what is accidental. In their blindness they appropriate to themselves what is Gods. This is the direction they take, and they eventually sink into sinfulness. ",
  "* Disciple: The truth be praised! Dear Lord, tell me, does anything (of this self) still remain in the happy, detached person?Truth: Without a doubt it happens that, when the good and loyal servant is led into the joy of his Lord, he becomes drunk from the limitless overabundance of Gods house. What happens to a drunken man happens to him, though it cannot really be described, that he so forgets his self that he is not at all his self and consequently has got rid of his self completely and lost himself entirely in God, becoming one spirit in all ways with him, just as a small drop of water does which has been dropped into a large amount of wine. Just as the drop of water loses itself, drawing the taste and colour of the wine to and into itself, so it happens that those who are in full possession of blessedness lose all human desires in an inexpressible manner, and they ebb away from themselves and are immersed completely in the divine will. Otherwise, if something of the individual were to remain of which he or she were not completely emptied, scripture could not be true in stating that God shall thumb|right|When the good and loyal servant is led into the joy of his Lord, he becomes drunk from the limitless overabundance of Gods house. What happens to a drunken man happens to him, though it cannot really be described, that he so forgets his self that he is not at all his self become all things in all things. Certainly ones being remains, but in a different form, in a different resplendence, and in a different power. This is all the result of total detachment from self.",
  "* One thing you must know: Just as there is no comparison between actually hearing the sound of harp-strings sweetly plucked and listening to someone talking about it, so too there is no comparison between words which are received in pure grace, issuing from a living heart, spoken by living lips, and those self-same words committed to dry parchment \u2014 especially words in German. For these somehow grow chill, losing their vitality like roses cut. For the enchanting melody which, more than anything else, moves human hearts, then fades away, so that the words are received now into the dryness of dry hearts. No harp-strings were ever so sweet but, when stretched across dry timber, they fall silent. An unloving heart can no more understand a love-filled speaker than a German an Italian. Therefore, an eager enquirer should hasten to the out-flowing streams of these sweet teachings so that she may see and observe them at their source in all its living and wondrous beauty \u2013 that is, the in-flowing of present grace which is able to restore dead hearts to life."
]