[
  "* And hereupon, Sir, I will declare unto you, out of my small gifts and knowledge: What a Christian is, and wherefore he is called a Christian. Namely, that he only is a Christian, who is become capable of this high title in himself, and hath resigned himself with his inward ground, mind, and will to the free grace in Christ Jesus, and is in the will of his soul become as a young child, that only longeth after the breasts of the mother, that sincerely panteth after the mother, and sucketh the breasts of the mother whereof it liveth.",
  "* A man must come to the practice, effectual performance, and fruitfulness in Christianity, otherwise the new birth is not yet manifest in him, nor the noble branch yet born; no tickling or soothing, comforting with promises or Scripture evidences, and boasting of a faith, doth avail any man at all, if the faith make him not a child conformable to God in essence and will, which faith bringeth forth divine fruit.",
  "* A real true Christian hath no controversy or contention with anybody; for, in the resignation in Christ, he dieth from all controversy and strife; he asketh no more after the way to God, but wholly surrenders himself to the mother, namely, unto the spirit of Christ; and whatsoever it doth with him it is all one to him; be it prosperity or adversity in this world \u2014 life or death \u2014 it is all alike unto him; no adversity or calamity reacheth the new man, but only the old man of this world. With the same the world may do what it pleaseth: it belongeth unto the world; but the new man belongeth to God.",
  "* I must tell you, sir, that yesterday the pharisaical devil was let loose, cursed me and my little book, and condemned the book to the fire. He charged me with shocking vices; with being a scorner of both Church and Sacraments, and with getting drunk daily on brandy, wine, and beer; all of which is untrue; while he himself is a drunken man.",
  "* We men have one Name of God. Its letters are the flames of His love, which He out of His Name of Jesus has revealed in us. Read these letters in your hearts and children of God direct you unto that one book, for therein lie all the treasures of wisdom.  \u2026 This book is Christ in you.",
  "* If thou wilt use these Words aright, and art in good Earnest, thou shalt certainly find the Benefit thereof. But I desire thou mayest be warned, if thou art not in Earnest, not to meddle with the dear Names of God, in and by which the most High Holiness is invoked, moved, and powerfully desired, lest they kindle the Anger of God in thy Soul. For we must not abuse the Holy Names of God. This little Book is only for those that would fain repent, and are in a Desire to begin. Such will find what Manner of Words therein, and whence they are born. Be you herewith commended to the Eternal Goodness and Mercy of God.",
  "* This is understood by none but the Children of Christ, who have known it by Experience.  When Christ the Corner-stone stirreth himself in the extinguished Image of Man, in his hearty Conversion and Repentance, then Virgin Sophia appeareth in the Stirring of the Spirit of Christ in the extinguished Image, in her Virgins Attire before the Soul; at which the Soul is so amazed and astonished in its Uncleanness, that all its Sins immediately awake in it, and it trembleth before her; for then the Judgement passeth upon the Sins of the Soul, so that it even goeth back in its Unworthiness, being ashamed in the Presence of its fair Love, and entereth into itself, feeling and acknowledging itself utterly unworthy to receive such a Jewel. This is understood by those who are of our Tribe, and have tasted of this Heavenly Gift, and by none else. But the noble Sophia draweth near in the Essence of the Soul, and kisseth it in friendly Manner, and tinctureth its dark Fire with her Rays of Love, and shineth through it with her bright and powerful Influence. Penetrated with the strong Sense and Feeling of which, the Soul skippeth in its Body for great Joy, and in the Strength of this Virgin Love exulteth, and praiseth the great God for his blessed Gift of Grace."
]