[
  "** We live in a world we ourselves create.",
  "* Should there not be manifest his age alone, he builds on the preceding one, this becomes nothing but the foundation of the future, wants to be nothing but that \u2014 this is what we are told by the analogy in nature, God\u2019s speaking exemplary model in all works! Manifestly so in the human species! ",
  "** With the greatest possible solicitude avoid authorship. Too early or immoderately employed, it makes the head waste and the heart empty; even were there no other worse consequences. A person, who reads only to print, to all probability reads amiss; and he, who sends away through the pen and the press every thought, the moment it occurs to him, will in a short time have sent all away, and will become a mere journeyman of the printing-office, a compositor.",
  "** The craving for a delicate fruit is pleasanter than the fruit itself.",
  "* Calmly take what ill betideth;  Patience wins the crown at length:  Rich repayment him abideth  Who endures in quiet strength.  Brave the tamer of the lion;  Brave whom conquered kingdoms praise;  Bravest he who rules his passions,  Who his own impatience sways.",
  "** Whateer of us lives in the hearts of othersIs our truest and profoundest self.",
  "** \"Tell me, O wise man, how hast thou come to know so astonishingly much?\"By never being ashamed to ask of those that knew!",
  "* Christ is, in the noblest and most perfect sense, the realized ideal of humanity.",
  "** The two grand tyrants of the Earth, Time and Chance.",
  "** Every one loves his country, his manners, his language, his wife, his children; not because they are the best in the World, but because they are absolutely his own, and he loves himself and his own labours in them.",
  "** I am no longer misled, therefore, by the mechanism of revolutions: it is as necessary to our species, as the waves to the stream, that it becomes not a stagnant pool. The genius of humanity blooms in continually renovated youth.",
  "* Air, fire, water and the earth evolve out of the spiritual and material staminibus in periodic cycles of time. Diverse connections of water, air, and light precede the emergence of the seed of the simplest plant, for instance moss. Many plants had to come into being, then die away before an animal emerged. Insects, birds, water animals, and night animals preceded the present animal forms; until finally the crown of earthly organization appeared\u2014the human being, microcosm. He is the son of all the elements and beings, Nature\u2019s most carefully chosen conception and the blossom of creation. He must be the youngest child of Nature; many evolutions and revolutions must have preceded his formation.",
  "** How transitory all human structures are, nay how oppressive the best institutions become in the course of a few generations. The plant blossoms, and fades: your fathers have died, and mouldered into dust: your temple is fallen: your tabernacle, the tables of your law, are no more: language itself, that bond of mankind, becomes antiquated: and shall a political constitution, shall a system of government or religion, that can be erected solely on these, endure for ever?",
  "** The nature of man remains ever the same: in the ten thousandth year of the World he will be born with passions, as he was born with passions in the two thousandth, and ran through his course of follies to a late, imperfect, useless wisdom. We wander in a labyrinth, in which our lives occupy but a span; so that it is to us nearly a matter of indifference, whether there be any entrance or outlet to the intricate path.",
  "* \u2026nothing in Nature stands still; everything strives and moves forward. If we could only view the first stages of creation, how the kingdoms of nature were built one upon the other, a progression of forward-striving forces would reveal itself in all evolution."
]