[
  "* I think that it is a relatively good approximation to truth \u2014 which is much too complicated to allow anything but approximations \u2014 that mathematical ideas originate in empirics. But, once they are conceived, the subject begins to live a peculiar life of its own and is \u2026 governed by almost entirely aesthetical motivations. In other words, at a great distance from its empirical source, or after much \"abstract\" inbreeding, a mathematical subject is in danger of degeneration. Whenever this stage is reached the only remedy seems to me to be the rejuvenating return to the source: the reinjection of more or less directly empirical ideas.",
  "* Any one who considers arithmetical methods of producing random digits is, of course, in a state of sin. For, as has been pointed out several times, there is no such thing as a random number \u2014 there are only methods to produce random numbers, and a strict arithmetic procedure of course is not such a method.",
  "* The total subject of mathematics is clearly too broad for any one of us. I do not think that any mathematician since Gauss has covered it fully and uniformly, even Hilbert did not, and all of us are of considerably lesser width (quite apart from the question of depth) than Hilbert. It would therefore, be quite unrealistic not to admit, that any address I could possibly give would not be biased towards some areas in mathematics in which I have had some experience, to the detriment of others which may be equally or more important. To be specific, I could not avoid a bias towards those parts of analysis, logics, and certain border areas of the applications of mathematics to other sciences in which I have worked. If your Committee feels that an address which is affected by such imperfections still fits into the program of the Congress, and if the very generous confidence in my ability to deliver continues, I shall be glad to undertake it.",
  "* A large part of mathematics which becomes useful developed with absolutely no desire to be useful, and in a situation where nobody could possibly know in what area it would become useful; and there were no general indications that it ever would be so. By and large it is uniformly true in mathematics that there is a time lapse between a mathematical discovery and the moment when it is useful; and that this lapse of time can be anything from 30 to 100 years, in some cases even more; and that the whole system seems to function without any direction, without any reference to usefulness, and without any desire to do things which are useful.",
  "* The sciences do not try to explain, they hardly even try to interpret, they mainly make models. By a model is meant a mathematical construct which, with the addition of certain verbal interpretations, describes observed phenomena. The justification of such a mathematical construct is solely and precisely that it is expected to work.",
  "* It is exceptional that one should be able to acquire the understanding of a process without having previously acquired a deep familiarity with running it, with using it, before one has assimilated it in an instinctive and empirical way\u2026 Thus any discussion of the nature of intellectual effort in any field is difficult, unless it presupposes an easy, routine familiarity with that field. In mathematics this limitation becomes very severe.",
  "* When we talk mathematics, we may be discussing a secondary language built on the primary language of the nervous system.",
  "* It is just as foolish to complain that people are selfish and treacherous as it is to complain that the magnetic field does not increase unless the electric field has a curl. Both are laws of nature.",
  "* You should call it entropy, for two reasons. In the first place your uncertainty function has been used in statistical mechanics under that name, so it already has a name. In the second place, and more important, no one really knows what entropy really is, so in a debate you will always have the advantage.",
  "* Young man, in mathematics you dont understand things. You just get used to them.",
  "* You dont have to be responsible for the world that youre in.",
  "* The goys have proven the following theorem\u2026",
  "* The calculus was the first achievement of modern mathematics and it is difficult to overestimate its importance. I think it defines more unequivocally than anything else the inception of modern mathematics; and the system of mathematical analysis, which is its logical development, still constitutes the greatest technical advance in exact thinking.",
  "* With four parameters I can fit an elephant, and with five I can make him wiggle his trunk.",
  "* You wake me up early in the morning to tell me that Im right? Please wait until Im wrong.",
  "* If one has really technically penetrated a subject, things that previously seemed in complete contrast, might be purely mathematical transformations of each other.",
  "* If people do not believe that mathematics is simple, it is only because they do not realize how complicated life is.",
  "* There probably is a God. Many things are easier to explain if there is than if there isnt.",
  "* If you say why not bomb them tomorrow, I say why not today? If you say today at five o clock, I say why not one o clock?",
  "* Some people confess guilt to claim credit for the sin.",
  "* If you say why not bomb [the Soviets] tomorrow, I say, why not today? If you say today at five oclock, I say why not one oclock?"
]