[
  "* To every -consistent recursive class  of formulae there correspond recursive class signs r, such that neither v Gen r nor Neg (v Gen r) belongs to Flg () (where v is the free variable of r).",
  "* The completeness theorem, mathematically, is indeed an almost trivial consequence of Skolem 1923a. However, the fact is that, at that time, nobody (including Skolem himself) drew this conclusion (neither from Skolem 1923a nor, as I did, from similar considerations of his own).",
  "* But every error is due to extraneous factors (such as emotion and education); reason itself does not err.",
  "* Either mathematics is too big for the human mind, or the human mind is more than a machine.",
  "* The formation in geological time of the human body by the laws of physics (or any other laws of similar nature), starting from a random distribution of elementary particles and the field is as unlikely as the separation of the atmosphere into its components. The complexity of the living things has to be present within the material [from which they are derived] or in the laws [governing their formation].",
  "* I like Islam, it is a consistent idea of religion and open-minded.",
  "* Ninety percent of [contemporary philosophers] see their principal task as that of beating religion out of mens heads.  \u2026 We are far from being able to provide scientific basis for the theological world view.",
  "* The meaning of the world is the separation of wish and fact. Wish is a force as applied to thinking beings, to realize something. A fulfilled wish is a union of wish and fact. The meaning of the whole world is the separation and the union of fact and wish.",
  "* Secondly, even disregarding the intrinsic necessity of some new axiom, and even in case it has no intrinsic necessity at all, a probable decision about its truth is possible also in another way, namely, inductively by studying its \"success.\" Success here means fruitfulness in consequences, in particular in \"veri\ufb01able\" consequences, i.e. consequences veri\ufb01able without the new axiom, whose proofs with the help of the new axiom, however, are considerably simpler and easier to discover, and make it possible to contract into one proof many different proofs. The axioms for the system of real numbers, rejected by the intuitionists, have in this sense been veri\ufb01ed to some extent, owing to the fact that analytic number theory frequently allows one to prove number-theoretical theorems which, in a more cumbersome way, can subsequently be veri\ufb01ed by elementary methods. A much higher degree of veri\ufb01cation than that, however, is conceivable. There might exists axioms so abundant in their veri\ufb01able consequences, shedding so much light upon a whole \ufb01eld, and yielding such powerful methods for solving problems, (and even solving them constructively, as far as that is possible) that, no matter whether or not they are intrinsically necessary, they would have to be accepted at least in the same sense as any well-established physical theory."
]