[
  "*Those about whom you inquire have moulded with their bones into dust. Nothing but their words remain. When the hour of the great man has struck he rises to leadership; but before his time has come he is hampered in all that he attempts. I have heard that the successful merchant carefully conceals his wealth, and acts as though he had nothing\u2014that the great man, though abounding in achievements, is simple in his manners and appearance. Get rid of your pride and your many ambitions, your affectation and your extravagant aims. Your character gains nothing for all these. This is my advice to you.",
  "* The Tao that can be expressed is not the eternal Tao; The name that can be defined is not the unchanging name. Non-existence is called the antecedent of heaven and earth; Existence is the mother of all things. From eternal non-existence, therefore, we serenely observe the mysterious beginning of the Universe; From eternal existence we clearly see the apparent distinctions. These two are the same in source and become different when manifested. This sameness is called profundity. Infinite profundity is the gate whence comes the beginning of all parts of the Universe.",
  "* The eternal Tao; The name that can be named is not the eternal name. The nameless is the beginning of heaven and earth. The named is the mother of ten thousand things. Ever desireless, one can see the mystery. Ever desiring, one can see the manifestations. These two spring from the same source but differ in name; this appears as darkness. Darkness within darkness. The gate to all mystery.",
  "* The tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao The name that can be named is not the eternal Name. The unnameable is the eternally real. Naming is the origin of all particular things. Free from desire, you realize the mystery. Caught in desire, you see only the manifestations. Yet mystery and manifestations arise from the same source. This source is called darkness. Darkness within darkness. The gateway to all understanding.",
  "* The tao that can be described  is not the eternal Tao.  The name that can be spoken  is not the eternal Name. The nameless is the boundary of Heaven and Earth.  The named is the mother of creation.  Freed from desire, you can see the hidden mystery.  By having desire, you can only see what is visibly real.  Yet mystery and reality  emerge from the same source.  This source is called darkness.  Darkness born from darkness.  The beginning of all understanding.",
  "* The way you can go isnt the real way. The name you can say isnt the real name. Heaven and earth begin in the unnamed: names the mother of the ten thousand things. So the unwanting soul sees whats hidden, and the ever-wanting soul sees only what it wants. Two things, one origin, but different in name, whose identity is mystery. Mystery of all mysteries! The door to the hidden.",
  "* A way can be a guide but not a fixed pathnames can be given but not permanent labelsNonbeing is called the beginning of heaven and earthbeing is called the mother of all thingsAlways passionless thereby observe the subtleever intent thereby observe the apparentThese two come from the same source but differ in nameboth are considered mysteriesThe mystery of mysteries is the gateway of marvels",
  "* The Tao is teachable,  yet understanding my words   is not the same as following the Tao.  The guidance is describable,  yet knowing the description   is not the same as following the guidance.  Non-Being guides to the origin of Heaven and Earth.  Being guides to the mother of all particular things. Thus, through the guidance of Non-Being,  you can observe the beginning;  through the guidance of Being,  you can observe the returning.  Non-Being and Being come out concurrently,  but point to different directions;  both together can be called the mysterious transforming power.  They constantly transform into each other,  and form the gateways for all wonderful things.",
  "*A violent wind does not outlast the morning; a squall of rain does not outlast the day. Such is the course of Nature. And if Nature herself cannot sustain her efforts long, how much less can man!",
  "* The Tao is like a well:  used but never used up.  It is like the eternal void:  filled with infinite possibilities.  It is hidden but always present.  I dont know who gave birth to it.  It is older than God.",
  "* The Tao works like the greatest fountain,  it functions perfectly and never overflows.  All things spray out from it and return into it,   it seems to be the origin of them.  It blunts the sharpness of the powerful,  untangle the knot of the powerless;  softens the glare of the noble,  and stays with the humble.  Oh, it is hidden so deep that it seems not existing.  I do not know its source,  but I know it is the source of the Heavenly God.",
  "* The Tao is like a bellows:  it is empty yet infinitely capable.  The more you use it, the more it produces;  the more you talk of it, the less you understand.",
  "* The love of Heaven and Earth is impartial,  and they demand nothing from the myriad things.  The love of the sages is impartial,  and they demand nothing from the people.  The cooperation between Heaven and Earth  is much like how a bellows works!  Within the emptiness there is limitless potential;  in moving, it keeps producing without end.  Complaining too much only leads to misfortune.  It is better to stay in the center of serenity.",
  "* The Tao is called the Great Mother:  empty yet inexhaustible,  it gives birth to infinite worlds.",
  "* The not confining himself to himself sustains himself outside himself: By never being an end in himself he endlessly becomes himself.",
  "* Thirty spokes unite at the single hub;It is the empty space which makes the wheel useful.Mold clay to form a bowl;It is the empty space which makes the bowl useful.Cut out windows and doors;It is the empty space which makes the room useful.",
  "* A leader is best when people barely know that he exists, not so good when people obey and acclaim him, worst when they despise him. Fail to honor people, They fail to honor you. But of a good leader, who talks little, when his work is done, his aims fulfilled, they will all say, \"We did this ourselves.\"",
  "* Since before time and space were, the Tao is. It is beyond is and is not. How do I know this is true? I look inside myself and see.",
  "* Therefore the Sage embraces the One,And becomes the model of the world.He does not reveal himself,   And is therefore luminous.He does not justify himself,   And is therefore far-famed.He does not boast himself,   And therefore people give him credit.He does not pride himself,   And is therefore the ruler among men.It is because he does not contendThat no one in the world can contend against him.",
  "* There is a thing inherent and natural,  Which existed before heaven and earth.  Motionless and fathomless,  It stands alone and never changes;  It pervades everywhere and never becomes exhausted.  It may be regarded as the Mother of the Universe. I do not know its name. If I am forced to give it a name, I call it Tao, and I name it as supreme.",
  "* A good traveler has no fixed plans  and is not intent upon arriving.  A good artist lets his intuition  lead him wherever it wants.  A good scientist has freed himself of concepts  and keeps his mind open to what is.  Thus the Master is available to all people  and doesnt reject anyone.  He is ready to use all situations  and doesnt waste anything.  This is called embodying the light.",
  "* Knowing others is intelligence;  knowing yourself is true wisdom. Mastering others is strength; mastering yourself is true power.",
  "* Scholars of the highest class, when they hear about the Tao, take it and practice it earnestly.  Scholars of the middle class, when they hear of it, take it half earnestly.  Scholars of the lowest class, when they hear of it, laugh at it. Without the laughter, there would be no Tao.",
  "* He who knows that enough is enough will always have enough.",
  "* By letting it go it all gets done. The world is won by those who let it go. But when you try and try, the world is beyond the winning.",
  "*To attain knowledge, add things every day.To attain wisdom, remove things every day.",
  "* Block the passages, shut the doors,  And till the end your strength shall not fail.  Open up the passages, increase your doings,  And till your last day no help shall come to you.",
  "* He who knows does not speak; he who speaks does not know.",
  "*The more prohibitions that are imposed on people,  The poorer the people become.  The more laws and regulations that exist,  The more thieves and brigands appear. The more laws and order are made prominent,  the more thieves and robbers there will be. ",
  "** Qi\u0101n l\u01d0 zh\u012b x\u00edng sh\u01d0 y\u00fa z\u00fa xi\u00e0.",
  "* The mark of a moderate man is freedom from his own ideas. Tolerant like the sky, all-pervading like sunlight, firm like a mountain, supple like a tree in the wind, he has no destination in view and makes use of anything life happens to bring his way.",
  "* Governing a large country is like frying a small fish.",
  "* When men lack a sense of awe, there will be disaster.",
  "*People starved because the ruler taxed too heavily. ",
  "*People are difficult to be ruled, Because the ruler governs with personal desire and establishes too many laws to confuse the people.",
  "* Wise men dont need to prove their point;  men who need to prove their point arent wise. The Master has no possessions. The more he does for others, the happier he is.  The more he gives to others, the wealthier he is.  The Tao nourishes by not forcing.  By not dominating, the Master leads.",
  "* Truthful words are not fancy;  fancy words are not truthful. The good are not argumentative;  the argumentative are not quite good.  The wise know the truth not by storing up knowledge;  those who focus on storing up knowledge do not know the truth. The sage does not hoard for herself. The more she helps others, the richer life she lives. The more she gives to others,  the more abundance she realizes. The Tao of heaven benefits all beings without harming anyone.  The Tao of the sage assists the people without competing with anyone.",
  "* I am not at all interested in immortality, only in the taste of tea.",
  "* Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach him how to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.",
  "* Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love. ",
  "* What I hear, I forget. What I say, I remember. What I do, I understand.",
  "* When the center does not hold, the circle falls apart.",
  "*Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Dont resist them \u2013 that only creates sorrow. Let reality be reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like.",
  "* Care about peoples approval and you will be their prisoner.",
  "* When I am anxious it is because I am living in the future. When I am depressed it is because I am living in the past.",
  "*An ant on the move does more than a dozing ox"
]