[
  "* The modern state is the distinctive product of a unique civilization. But it is a product which is still in the making, and a part of the process is a struggle between old and new principles of social order.",
  "* At all times men have lived in societies, and ties of kinship and of simple neighbourhood underlie every form of social organization.",
  "* Both logically and historically the first point of attack is arbitrary government, and the first liberty to be secured is the right to be dealt with in accordance with law. A man who has no legal rights against another, but stands entirely at his disposal, to be treated according to his caprice, is a slave to that other.",
  "* The first condition of universal freedom, that is to say, is a measure of universal restraint. Without such restraint some men may be free but others will be unfree. ",
  "* If there is one law for the Government and another for its subjects, one for noble and another for commoner, one for rich and another for poor, the law does not guarantee liberty for all. ",
  "* Great changes are not caused by ideas alone; but they are not effected without ideas.",
  "* To be effective men must act together, and to act together they must have a common understanding and a common object. ",
  "* The more the individual receives free scope for the play of his faculties, the more rapidly will society as a whole advance. ",
  "* Government must keep the ring, and leave it for individuals to play the game.",
  "* If the child was helpless, was the grown up person, man or woman, in a much better position?",
  "* The more a class is brought low, the greater its difficulty in rising again without assistance. For purposes of legislation the State has been exceedingly slow to accept this view.",
  "* True consent is free consent, and full freedom of consent implies equality on the part of both parties to bargain.",
  "* He is a citizen of the world in that he represents his nation, which is a member of the community of the world.",
  "*There is no line drawn beyond which human obligations cease. There is no gulf across which the voice of human suffering cannot be heard, beyond which massacre and torture cease to be execrable. Simply as a patriot, again, a man should recognize that a nation may become great not merely by painting the map red, or extending her commerce beyond all precedent, but also as the champion of justice, the succourer of the oppressed, the established home of freedom.",
  "* Compulsion may be necessary for the purposes of external order, but it adds nothing to the inward life that is the true being of a man.",
  "* The Liberal does not meet opinions which he conceives to be false with toleration, as though they did not matter. He meets them with justice, and exacts for them a fair hearing as though they mattered just as much as his own. ",
  "* The foundation of liberty is the idea of growth.",
  "* To move towards harmony is the persistent impulse of the rational being, even if the goal lies always beyond the reach of accomplished effort.",
  "* Does scope for individual development, for example, consort with idea of equality?",
  "* The fancied clearness of Utopian vision is illusory, because its objects are artificial ideas and not living facts.",
  "* Other great sources of wealth are found in financial and speculative operations, often of distinctly anti-social tendency and possible only through the defective organization of our economy. ",
  "* In modern industry there is very little that the individual can do by his unaided efforts.",
  "* What we possess has its intrinsic value, but how we came to possess it is also an important question.",
  "* Some men are much better and wiser than others, but experience seems to show that hardly any man is so much better than or wiser than others that he can permanently stand the test of irresponsible power over them.",
  "* We need less of the fanatics of sectarianism and more of the unifying mind."
]