[
  "* \u2026 my Latin and German propositions. You wonder I did not tell you of them. But I did not wish to have them widely circulated. I only intended submitting them to a few learned men for examination, and if they disapproved of them, to suppress them \u2014 or make them known through their publications, in the event of their meeting with your approval. But now they are being spread abroad and translated everywhere, which I never could have credited, so that I regret having given birth to them \u2014 not that I am unwilling to proclaim the truth manfully, for there is nothing I more ardently desire, but because this way of instructing the people is of little avail. As yet I am still uncertain as to some points, and would have gone into others more particularly, leaving some out entirely, had I foreseen all this.",
  "* If a woman becomes weary and at last dead from bearing, that matters not; let her only die from bearing, she is there to do it.",
  "* Lastly, we must also know what Baptism signifies, and why God has ordained just such external sign and ceremony for the Sacrament by which we are first received into the Christian Church. But the act or ceremony is this, that we are sunk under the water, which passes over us, and afterwards are drawn out again. These two parts, to be sunk under the water and drawn out again, signify the power and operation of Baptism, which is nothing else than putting to death the old Adam, and after that the resurrection of the new man, both of which must take place in us all our lives, so that a truly Christian life is nothing else than a daily baptism, once begun and ever to be continued.",
  "* The heathen really make their self-invented notions and dreams of God and idol. Ultimately, they put their trust in that which is nothing. So it is with all idolatry. For it happens not merely by erecting an image and worshipping it, but rather it happens in the heart. For the heart seeks help and consolation from creatures, saints, or devils. It neither cares for God, nor looks to Him for anything better than to believe that He is willing to help.",
  "* His Mohammed, as has been said, commands that ruling is to be done by the sword, and in his Koran the sword is the commonest and noblest work. Thus the Turk is, in truth, nothing but a murderer or highwayman, as his deeds show before men\u2019s eyes.",
  "* But the exceedingly foul deed of Onan, the basest of wretches, follows. Onan must have been a malicious and incorrigible scoundrel. This is a most disgraceful sin. It is far more atrocious than incest and adultery. We call it unchastity, yes a Sodomitic sin. For Onan goes in to her; that is, he lies with her and copulates, and when it comes to the point of insemination, spills the semen, lest the woman conceive. Surely at such a time the order of nature established by God in procreation should be followed. Accordingly, it was a most disgraceful crime to produce semen and excite the woman, and to frustrate her at that very moment.",
  "* My whole heart and soul are stirred and incensed against the Turks and Mohammed, when I see this intolerable raging of the Devil. Therefore I shall pray and cry to God, nor rest until I know that my cry is heard in heaven.",
  "* Regarding the plan to collect my writings in volumes, I am quite cool and not at all eager about it because, roused by a Saturnian hunger, I would rather see them all devoured. For I acknowledge none of them to be really a book of mine, except perhaps the one On the Bound Will and the Catechism.",
  "* One should hasten to put such witches to death.",
  "* August 25, 1538, the conversation fell upon witches who spoil milk, eggs, and butter in farm yards. Dr. Luther said: \u201cI should have no compassion on these witches; I would burn all of them. We read in the old law, that the priests threw the first stone at such malefactors, `Tis said this stolen butter turns rancid, and falls to the ground when any one goes to eat it. He who attempts to counteract and chastise these witches, is himself corporally plagued and tormented by their master, the devil. Sundry schoolmasters and ministers have often experienced this. Our ordinary sins offend and anger God. What, then, must be his wrath against witchcraft, which we may justly designate high treason against divine majesty, a revolt against the infinite power of God. The jurisconsults who have so learnedly and pertinently treated of rebellion, affirm that the subject who rebels against his sovereign, is worthy of death. Does not witchcraft, then, merit death, which is a revolt of the creature against the Creator, a denial to God of the authority it accords to the demon?\u201d ",
  "*Although indulgences are the very merits of Christ and of His saints and so should be treated with all reverence, they have in fact nonetheless become a shocking exercise of greed. For who actually seeks the salvation of souls through indulgences, and not instead money for his coffers? This is evident from the way indulgences are preached. For the commissioners and preachers do nothing but extol indulgences and incite the people to contribute. You hear no one instructing the people about what indulgences are, or about how much they grant, or about the purpose they serve. Instead, all you hear is how much one must contribute. The people are always left in ignorance, so that they come to think that by gaining indulgences they are at once saved.",
  "* If it were art to overcome heresy with fire, the executioners would be the most learned doctors on earth.",
  "* I would advise no one to send his child where the Holy Scriptures are not supreme. Every institution that does not unceasingly pursue the study of Gods word becomes corrupt. Because of this we can see what kind of people they become in the universities and what they are like now. Nobody is to blame for this except the pope, the bishops, and the prelates, who are all charged with training young people. The universities only ought to turn out men who are experts in the Holy Scriptures, men who can become bishops and priests, and stand in the front line against heretics, the devil, and all the world. But where do you find that? I greatly fear that the universities, unless they teach the Holy Scriptures diligently and impress them on the young students, are wide gates to hell.",
  "*The works of the righteous would be mortal sins if they would not be feared as mortal sins by the righteous themselves out of pious fear of God.",
  "* Unless I am convinced by the testimony of the Scriptures or by clear reason (for I do not trust either in the pope or in councils alone, since it is well known that they have often erred and contradicted themselves), I am bound by the Scriptures I have quoted and my conscience is captive to the Word of God. I cannot and will not recant anything, since it is neither safe nor right to go against conscience. May God help me. Amen.",
  "**This error of free will is a special doctrine of the Antichrist.",
  "* The blame rests with the government. Why do they not put adulterers to death? Then I would not need to give such advice. Between two evils one is always the lesser, in this case allowing the adulterer to remarry in a distant land in order to avoid fornication . . .",
  "* Here you should be guided by the words of St. Paul, I Corinthians 7 [:4\u20135], \u201cThe husband does not rule over his own body, but the wife does; likewise the wife does not rule over her own body, but the husband does. Do not deprive each other, except by agreement,\u201d etc. Notice that St. Paul forbids either party to deprive the other, for by the marriage vow each submits his body to the other in conjugal duty. When one resists the other and refuses the conjugal duty she is robbing the other of the body she had bestowed upon him. This is really contrary to marriage, and dissolves the marriage. For this reason the civil government must compel the wife, or put her to death. If the government fails to act, the husband must reason that his wife has been stolen away and slain by robbers; he must seek another. We would certainly have to accept it if someone\u2019s life were taken from him. Why then should we not also accept it if a wife steals herself away from her husband, or is stolen away by others? ",
  "* The mad mob does not ask how it could be better, only that it be different. And when it then becomes worse, it must change again. Thus they get bees for flies, and at last hornets for bees.",
  "* Concerning the female sorcerer. Roman law also prescribes this. Why does the law name women more than men here, even though men are also guilty of this? Because women are more susceptible to those superstitions of Satan; take Eve, for example. They are commonly called \u201cwise women.\u201d Let them be killed. ",
  "** A mighty fortress is our God,A bulwark never failing.Our helper He amid the floodOf mortal ills prevailing.",
  "* I know God only as he became human, so shall I have him in no other way.\" ",
  "* We must remove the Decalogue out of sight and heart.",
  "* If we allow them any influence in our conscience, they become the cloak of heresies and blasphemies. ",
  "* In particular, at this point also urge governing authorities and parents to rule well and to send their children to school. Point out how they are obliged to do so and what a damnable sin they commit if they do not, for thereby, as the worst enemies of God and humanity, they overthrow and lay waste both the kingdom of God and the kingdom of the world. Explain very clearly what kind of horrible damage they do when they do not help to train children as pastors, preachers, civil servants, etc., and tell them that God will punish them dreadfully for this. For in our day and age it is necessary to preach about these things. The extent to which parents and governing authorities are now sinning in these matters defies description. The devil, too, intends to do something horrible in all this.",
  "* You must not murder. (Exodus 20:13)  Q. What does this mean?  A. We should fear and love God so that we may not hurt or harm our neighbor in his body, but help and befriend him in every bodily need [in every need and danger of life and body.",
  "* What can only be taught by the rod and with blows will not lead to much good; they will not remain pious any longer than the rod is behind them.",
  "* We have now completed both the spiritual and the temporal government, that is, the divine and the paternal authority and obedience. But here now we go forth from our house among our neighbors to learn how we should live with one another, every one himself toward his neighbor. Therefore God and government are not included in this commandment nor is the power to kill, which they have taken away. For God has delegated His authority to punish evil-doers to the government instead of parents, who aforetime (as we read in Moses) were required to bring their own children to judgment and sentence them to death. Therefore, what is here forbidden is forbidden to the individual in his relation to any one else, and not to the government.",
  "* Peace is more important than all justice; and peace was not made for the sake of justice, but justice for the sake of peace.",
  "* Justice is a temporary thing that must at last come to an end; but the conscience is eternal and will never die.",
  "* Labour therefore diligently, that not only out of the time of temptation, but also in the time and conflict of death, when thy conscience is thoroughly afraid with the remembrance of thy sins past, and the devil assaileth thee with great violence, going about to overwhelm thee with heaps, floods and whole seas of sins, to terrify thee, to draw thee from Christ, and to drive thee to despair; that then I say, thou mayest be able to say with sure confidence: Christ the Son of God was given, not for the righteous and holy, but for the unrighteous and sinners.... If he gave himself to death for our sins, then undoubtedly he is no tyrant or judge which will condemn us for our sins. He is no caster-down of the afflicted, but a raiser-up of those that are fallen, a merciful reliever and comforter of the heavy and broken-hearted. Else should Paul lie in saying: \"which gave himself for our sins.\"",
  "* Now when God sends forth his holy Gospel, He deals with us in a twofold manner, the first outwardly, then inwardly. Outwardly he deals with us through the oral word of the Gospel and through material sings, that is, baptism adndthe sacrament of the altar. Inwardly He deals with us through the Holy spirit, faith, and other gifts. But whatever their measure of order the outward factors should and must procede. The inward experience follows and is effected by the outward. God has determined to give the inward to no one except through the outward.",
  "* It is an article of faith that Mary is Mother of the Lord and still a Virgin.",
  "* \"She is rightly called not only the mother of the man, but also the Mother of God ... It is certain that Mary is the Mother of the real and true God.",
  "* But the other conception, namely the infusion of the soul, it is piously and suitably believed, was without any sin, so that while the soul was being infused, she would at the same time be cleansed from original sin and adorned with the gifts of God to receive the holy soul thus infused. And thus, in the very moment in which she began to live, she was without all sin.",
  "* There can be no doubt that the Virgin Mary is in heaven. How it happened we do not know.",
  "* The veneration of Mary is inscribed in the very depths of the human heart.",
  "* Is Christ only to be adored? Or is the holy Mother of God rather not to be honoured? This is the woman who crushed the Serpents head. Hear us. For your Son denies you nothing.",
  "* The Virgin Mary remains in the middle between Christ and humankind. For in the very moment he was conceived and lived, he was full of grace. All other human beings are without grace, both in the first and second conception. But the Virgin Mary, though without grace in the first conception, was full of grace in the second ... whereas other human beings are conceived in sin, in soul as well as in body, and Christ was conceived without sin in soul as well as in body, the Virgin Mary was conceived in body without grace but in soul full of grace.",
  "* Furthermore, how will you endure [the Romanists] terrible idolatries? It was not enough that they venerated the saints and praised God in them, but they actually made them into gods. They put that noble child, the mother Mary, right into the place of Christ. They fashioned Christ into a judge and thus devised a tyrant for anguished consciences, so that all comfort and confidence was transferred from Christ to Mary, and then everyone turned from Christ to his particular saint. Can anyone deny this? Is it not true?",
  "* Mother Mary, like us, was born in sin of sinful parents, but the Holy Spirit covered her, sanctified and purified her so that this child was born of flesh and blood, but not with sinful flesh and blood. The Holy Spirit permitted the Virgin Mary to remain a true, natural human being of flesh and blood, just as we. However, he warded off sin from her flesh and blood so that she became the mother of a pure child, not poisoned by sin as we are. For in that moment when she conceived, she was a holy mother filled with the Holy Spirit and her fruit is a holy pure fruit, at once God and truly man, in one person",
  "* God has formed the soul and body of the Virgin Mary full of the Holy Spirit, so that she is without all sins, for she has conceived and borne the Lord Jesus.",
  "* All seed except Mary was vitiated [by original sin].",
  "* By Gods grace, I know Satan very well. If Satan can turn Gods Word upside down and pervert the Scriptures, what will he do with my words -- or the words of others?",
  "* Faith is a living, bold trust in Gods grace, so certain of Gods favor that it would risk death a thousand times trusting in it. Such confidence and knowledge of Gods grace makes you happy, joyful and bold in your relationship to God and all creatures. The Holy Spirit makes this happen through faith. Because of it, you freely, willingly and joyfully do good to everyone, serve everyone, suffer all kinds of things, love and praise the God who has shown you such grace.",
  "* If you are a preacher of mercy, do not preach an imaginary but the true mercy. If the mercy is true, you must therefore bear the true, not an imaginary sin. God does not save those who are only imaginary sinners. Be a sinner, and let your sins be strong (sin boldly), but let your trust in Christ be stronger, and rejoice in Christ who is the victor over sin, death, and the world. We will commit sins while we are here, for this life is not a place where justice resides. We, however, says Peter (2. Peter 3:13) are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth where justice will reign.",
  "* What does it mean to have a god? or, what is God? Answer: A god means that from which we are to expect all good and to which we are to take refuge in all distress, so that to have a God is nothing else than to trust and believe Him from the [whole] heart; as I have often said that the confidence and faith of the heart alone make both God and an idol. If your faith and trust be right, then is your god also true; and, on the other hand, if your trust be false and wrong, then you have not the true God; for these two belong together faith and God. That now, I say, upon which you set your heart and put your trust is properly your god.",
  "* But since the devils bride, Reason, that pretty whore, comes in and thinks shes wise, and what she says, what she thinks, is from the Holy Spirit, who can help us, then? Not judges, not doctors, no king or emperor, because [reason] is the Devils greatest whore.",
  "* When we are inclined to boast of our position [as Christians] we should remember that we are but Gentiles, while the Jews are of the lineage of Christ. We are aliens and in-laws; they are blood relatives, cousins, and brothers of our Lord. Therefore, if one is to boast of flesh and blood the Jews are actually nearer to Christ than we are.",
  "* I cannot forbid a person to marry several wives, for it does not contradict Scripture.",
  "*For the history of the centuries that have passed since the birth of Christ nowhere reveals conditions like those of the present. There has never been such building and planting in the world. There has never been such gluttonous and varied eating and drinking as now. Wearing apparel has reached its limit in costliness. Who has ever heard of such commerce as now encircles the earth? There have arisen all kinds of art and sculpture, embroidery and engraving, the like of which has not been seen during the whole Christian era. In addition men are so delving into the mysteries of things that today a boy of twenty knows more than twenty doctors formerly knew.",
  "*Few are the women and maidens who would let themselves think that one could at the same time be joyous and modest. They are all bold and coarse in their speech, in their demeanor wild and lewd. That is now the fashion of being in good cheer. But it is specially evil that the young maiden folk are exceedingly bold of speech and bearing, and curse like troopers, to say nothing of their shameful words and scandalous coarse sayings, which one always hears and learns from another.",
  "** Denifle, Heinrich, [http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924029249567 Luther and Lutherdom], vol.1, part 1, tr. from 2nd rev. ed. of German by Raymund Volz, Somerset, England: Torch Press, 1917, (Cornell University Library 2009), {{ISBN|1112168176}} {{ISBN|9781112168178}}, p. 305. Denifle cites Luther\u2019s S\u00e4mtliche Werke (Vols 4-6 in 1), Erlangen-Frankfurt edition, 1865, Heyder & Zimmer, [http://books.google.com/books?id=zTMoAAAAYAAJ&pg=RA3-PA401&dq=%22und+fluchen+wie+die+Landsknecht%22&lr=#v=onepage&q=%22und%20fluchen%20wie%20die%20Landsknecht%22&f=false vol. vi, p. 401]",
  "* Who loves not woman, wine, and song / Remains a fool his whole life long.",
  "*The \"great things\" are nothing less than that she became the Mother of God, in which work so many and such great good things are bestowed upon her as pass mans understanding. For on this there follows all honor, all blessedness, and her unique place in the whole of mankind, among whom she has no equal, namely, that she had a child by the Father in Heaven, and such a child. She herself is unable to find a name for this work, it is too exceedingly great; all she can do is break out in the fervent cry: \"They are great things,\" impossible to describe or define. Hence men have crowded all her glory into a single word, calling her the Mother of God. No one can say anything greater of her or to her, though he had as many tongues as there are leaves on the trees, or grass in the fields, or stars in the sky, or sand by the sea. It needs to be pondered in the heart, what it means to be the Mother of God.",
  "*On coming to the house, they (the Magi), saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down and worshiped him. (Matthew 2:11)",
  "*Religion is not doctrinal knowledge, but wisdom born of personal experience.",
  "*Holy Christendom has, in my judgment, no better teacher after the apostles than St. Augustine.",
  "*And I myself, in Rome, heard it said openly in the streets, \u201cIf there is a hell, then Rome is built on it.\u201d That is, \u201cAfter the devil himself, there is no worse folk than the pope and his followers.\u201d",
  "*Tell your master that if there were as many devils at Worms as tiles on its roofs, I would enter.",
  "* Dear rulers \u2026 I maintain that the civil authorities are under obligation to compel the people to send their children to school. \u2026 If the government can compel such citizens as are fit for military service to bear spear and rifle, to mount ramparts, and perform other martial duties in time of war, how much more has it a right to compel the people to send their children to school, because in this case we are warring with the devil, whose object it is secretly to exhaust our cities and principalities of their strong men.",
  "** What Luther Says, Section on \u201cLife, Human,\u201d No. 2438. Rules for a Thrifty Life. [http://books.google.com/books?lr=&id=NQA5AAAAIAAJ&dq=luther+%22penny+saved+is+better+than+a+penny+earned%22&q=+%22penny+%22#search_anchorvol| 2, p. 784]",
  "*Heretics cannot themselves appear good unless they depict the Church as evil, false, and mendacious. They alone wish to be esteemed as the good, but the Church must be made to appear evil in every respect.",
  "**Whoever teaches differently from what I have taught, or whoever condemns me therein, he condemns God and must remain a child of hell.",
  "*I shall not have it judged by any man, not even by any angel. For since I am certain of it, I shall be your judge and even the angels\u2019 judge through this teaching (as St. Paul says [1 Cor. 6:3]) so that whoever does not accept my teaching may not be saved - for it is God\u2019s teaching and not mine.",
  "*Of all the fathers, as many as you can name, not one has ever spoken about the sacrament as these fanatics do. None of them uses such an expression as, It is simply bread and wine, or, Christ\u2019s body and blood are not present. Yet since this subject is so frequently discussed by them, it is impossible that they should not at some time have let slip such an expression as, It is simply bread, or, Not that the body of Christ is physically present, or the like, since they are greatly concerned not to mislead the people; actually, they simply proceed to speak as if no one doubted that Christ\u2019s body and blood are present. Certainly among so many fathers and so many writings a negative argument should have turned up at least once, as happens in other articles; but actually they all stand uniformly and consistently on the affirmative side.",
  "**The Holy Christian Church is the principal work of God, for the sake of which all things were made. In the Church, great wonders daily occur, such as the forgiveness of sins, triumph over death . . . the gift of righteousness and eternal life. (Commentary on Psalm 143:5)",
  "*It is an unsufferable blasphemy to reject the public ministry or to say that people can become holy without sermons and Church. This involves a destruction of the Church and rebellion against ecclesiastical order; such upheavals must be warded off and punished like all other revolts.",
  "**As David said, \u201cAgainst thee, thee only, have I sinned, so that thou art justified in thy sentence\u201d [Ps. 51:4]. As a matter of fact, true Christians willingly accept the rebuke and judgment that is in the preaching of God\u2019s word. But those who won\u2019t receive this judgment show plainly that they are really damnable knaves. They are sinning against the Holy Spirit when they refuse to accept the rebuke of the preachers through whom he speaks. Or they are so far gone that they regard our preaching as nothing more than man\u2019s word and so won\u2019t tolerate it.",
  "* Besides, you also have many Jews living in the country, who do much harm... You should know the Jews blaspheme and violate the name of our Savior day for day\u2026 for that reason you, Milords and men of authority, should not tolerate but expel them. They are our public enemies and incessantly blaspheme our Lord Jesus Christ, they call our Blessed Virgin Mary a harlot and her Holy Son a bastard and to us they give the epithet of changelings and abortions. Therefore deal with them harshly as they do nothing but excruciatingly blaspheme our Lord Jesus Christ, trying to rob us of our lives, our health, our honor and belongings.",
  "* On account of this personal union and communion of the natures, Mary, the most blessed virgin, did not conceive a mere, ordinary human being, but a human being who is truly the Son of the most high God, as the angel testifies. He demonstrated his divine majesty even in his mothers womb in that he was born of a virgin without violating her virginity. Therefore she is truly the mother of God and yet remained a virgin.",
  "* The will is not free to strive toward whatever is declared good.",
  "* Man is by nature unable to want God to be God. Indeed, he himself wants to be God, and does not want God to be God.",
  "* We do not become righteous by doing righteous deeds but, having been made righteous, we do righteous deeds.",
  "* Since the law is good, the will, which is hostile to it, cannot be good.",
  "* When our Lord and Master Jesus Christ said, \"Repent,\" he willed the entire life of believers to be one of repentance.",
  "* To say that the cross emblazoned with the papal coat of arms, and set up by the indulgence preachers, is equal in worth to the cross of Christ is blasphemy.",
  "* When speaking of the spiritual nature or the soul, we are referring to that which is \u201cinner\u201d or \u201cnew.\u201d When speaking of the bodily nature, or that which is flesh and blood, we are referring to that which is called \u201csensual,\u201d \u201coutward,\u201d or \u201cold.\u201d Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 4:16: \u201cEven though our outer nature is wasting away, our inner nature is being renewed day by day.\u201d",
  "* Christ ought to be preached with this goal in mind \u2014 that we might be moved to faith in him so that he is not just a distant historical figure but actually Christ for you and me.",
  "* Faith is born and preserved in us by preaching why Christ came, what he brought and gave to us, and the benefits we obtain when we receive him. This happens when Christian liberty \u2014 which he gives to us \u2014 is rightly taught and we are told in what way as Christians we are all kings and priests and therefore lords of all.",
  "* A person must take care to exercise moderate discipline over the body and subject it to the Spirit by means of fasting, vigils, and labor. The goal is to have the body obey and conform \u2014 and not hinder \u2014 the inner person and faith. Unless it is held in check, we know it is the nature of the body to undermine faith and the inner person.",
  "* One ought to fast, watch, and labor to the extent that such activities are needed to harness the body\u2019s desires and longings; however, those who presume that they are justified by works pay no attention to the need for self-discipline but see the works themselves as the way to righteousness. They believe that if they do a great number of impressive works all will be well and righteousness will be the result. Sometimes this is pursued with such zeal that they become mentally unstable and their bodies are sapped of all strength. Such disastrous consequences demonstrate that the belief that we are justified and saved by works without faith is extremely foolish.",
  "* Adam was created righteous, acceptable, and without sin. He had no need from his labor in the garden to be made righteous and acceptable to God. Rather, the Lord gave Adam work in order to cultivate and protect the garden. This would have been the freest of all works because they were done simply to please God and not to obtain righteousness. \u2026 The works of the person who trusts God are to be understood in a similar manner. Through faith we are restored to paradise and created anew. We have no need of works in order to be righteous; however, in order to avoid idleness and so that the body might be cared for an disciplined, works are done freely to please God.",
  "* Through faith we are restored to paradise and created anew.",
  "* It is always necessary that the substance or essence of a person be good before there can be any good works and that good works follow and proceed from a person who is already good. Christ says in Matthew 7:18: \u201cA good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit.\u201d ... The fruit does not make the tree good or bad but the tree itself is what determines the nature of the fruit. In the same way, a person first must be good or bad before doing a good or bad work.",
  "* A Christian has no need of any law in order to be saved, since through faith we are free from every law. Thus all the acts of a Christian are done spontaneously, out of a sense of pure liberty. As Christians we do not seek our own advantage or salvation because we are already fully satisfied and saved by God\u2019s grace through faith. Now our only motive is to do that which is pleasing to God.",
  "* In Matthew 12:23 Christ says: \u201cEither make the tree good, and its fruit good; or make the tree bad and its fruit bad,\u201d as if to say: \u201cLet the one who wishes to have good fruit begin by planting a good tree.\u201d Therefore, let the person who wishes to do good works being not with the works but with the believing, for this alone makes a person good.",
  "* Many have been deceived by outward appearances and have proceeded to write and teach about good works and how they justify without even mentioning faith. \u2026 Wearying themselves with many works, they never come to righteousness.",
  "* Our preaching does not stop with the law. That would lead to wounding without binding up, striking down and not healing, killing and not making alive, driving down to hell and not bringing back up, humbling and not exalting. Therefore, we must also preach grace and the promise of forgiveness \u2014 this is the means by which faith is awakened and properly taught. Without this word of grace, the law, contrition, penitence, and everything else are done and taught in vain.",
  "* The Apostle Paul wants us to work with our hands in order to share with the needy (Ephesians 5:28). Notice that he could have said that we should work to support ourselves. But Paul says that we work to give to those in need. This is why caring for our body is also a Christian work. If the body is healthy and fit, we are able to work and save money that can be used to help those in need.",
  "* Lying and guile need only to be revealed and recognized to be undone. When once lying is recognized as such, it needs no second stroke; it falls of itself and vanishes in shame.",
  "* We must calm the mind of the common man, and tell him to abstain from the words and even the passions which lead to insurrection.",
  "* Insurrection ... never brings about the desired improvement. For insurrection lacks discernment; it generally harms the innocent more than the guilty. Hence, no insurrection is ever right, no matter how right the cause it seeks to promote.",
  "* Those who read and rightly understand my teaching will not start an insurrection; they have not learned that from me.",
  "* There is no need for you to develop an armed insurrection. Christ himself has already begun an insurrection with his mouth.",
  "* An armed insurrection ... would hinder and bring into disrepute this spiritual insurrection.",
  "* God the Almighty has made our rulers mad; they actually think they can doand order their subjects to dowhatever they please. And the subjects make the mistake of believing that they, in turn, are bound to obey their rulers in everything.",
  "* I would take to be quite a fool any man who would make a book full of laws and statutes for an apple tree telling it how to bear apples and not thorns, when the tree is able by its own nature to do this better than the man with all his books can describe and demand.",
  "* Certainly it is true that Christians, so far as they themselves are concerned, are subject neither to law nor sword, and have need of neither. But take heed and first fill the world with real Christians before you attempt to rule it in a Christian and evangelical manner. This you will never accomplish; for the world and the masses are and always will be un-Christian, even if they are all baptized and Christian in name.",
  "* I approached the task of destroying images by first tearing them out of the heart through God\u2019s Word and making them worthless and despised. This indeed took place before Dr. Karlstadt ever dreamed of destroying images. For when they are no longer in the heart, they can do no harm when seen with the eyes. But Dr. Karlstadt, who pays no attention to matters of the heart, has reversed the order by removing them from sight and leaving them in the heart. For he does not preach faith, nor can he preach it; unfortunately, only now do I see that. Which of these two forms of destroying images is best, I will let each man judge for himself.",
  "* I will first discuss images according to the Law of Moses, and then according to the gospel. And I say at the outset that according to the Law of Moses no other images are forbidden than an image of God which one worships. A crucifix, on the other hand, or any other holy image is not forbidden. Heigh now! you breakers of images, I defy you to prove the opposite!",
  "* Now I say this to keep the conscience free from mischievous laws and fictitious sins, and not because I would defend images. Nor would I condemn those who have destroyed them, especially those who destroy divine and idolatrous images. But images for memorial and witness, such as crucifixes and images of saints, are to be tolerated.",
  "* Throughout your treatment you forget that you said that free-will can do nothing without grace, and you prove that free-will can do all things without grace! Your inferences and analogies \"For if man has lost his freedom, and is forced to serve sin, and cannot will good, what conclusion can more justly be drawn concerning him, than that he sins and wills evil necessarily?",
  "* By the law is the knowledge of sin [Rom 3:20], so the word of grace comes only to those who are distressed by a sense of sin and tempted to despair.",
  "* As to why some are touched by the law and others not, so that some receive and others scorn the offer of grace...[this is the] hidden will of God, Who, according to His own counsel, ordains such persons as He wills to receive and partake of the mercy preached and offered.",
  "* Let all the free-will in the world do all it can with all its strength; it will never give rise to a single instance of ability to avoid being hardened if God does not give the Spirit, or of meriting mercy if it is left to its own strength.",
  "* Omnipotence and foreknowledge of God, I repeat, utterly destroy the doctrine of free-will ... doubtless it gives the greatest possible offense to common sense or natural reason, that God, Who is proclaimed as being full of mercy and goodness, and so on, should of His own mere will abandon, harden and damn men, as though He delighted in the sins and great eternal torments of such poor wretches. It seems an iniquitous, cruel, intolerable thought to think of God; and it is this that has been such a stumbling block to so many great men down through the ages. And who would not stumble at it? I have stumbled at it myself more than once, down to the deepest pit of despair, so that I wished I had never been made a man. (That was before I knew how health-giving that despair was, and how close to grace",
  "* Now, since on Gods own testimony, men are flesh, they can savour of nothing but the flesh; therefore free-will can avail only to sin. And if, while the Spirit of God is calling and teaching among them, they go from bad to worse, what could they do when left to themselves, without the Spirit of God? Your [Erasmus] observation that Moses is speaking of the men of that age is not to the point at all. The same is true of all men, for all are flesh; as Christ says, That which is born of the flesh is flesh (John 3:6) How grave a defect this is, He Himself there teaches, when he says: Except a man be born again, he cannot enter the kingdom of God (v. 5)...I call a man ungodly if he is without the Spirit of God; for Scripture says that the Spirit is given to justify the ungodly. As Christ distinguished the Spirit from the flesh, saying: \"that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and adds that which is born of the flesh cannot enter the kingdom of God, it obviously follows that whatever is flesh is ungodly, under Gods wrath, and a stranger to His kingdom. And if it is a stranger to Gods kingdom and Spirit, it follows of necessity that it is under the kingdom and spirit of Satan. For there is no middle kingdom between the kingdom of God and the Kingdom of Satan, which are ever at war with each other.",
  "* I say that man without the grace of God nonetheless remains the general omnipotence of God who effects, and moves and impels all things in a necessary, infallible course; but the effect of mans being carried along is nothing--that is, avails nothing in Gods sight, nor is reckoned to be anything but sin.",
  "* All the passages in the Holy Scriptures that mention assistance are they that do away with \"free-will\", and these are countless...For grace is needed, and the help of grace is given, because \"free-will\" can do nothing.",
  "* I frankly confess that, for myself, even if it could be, I should not want \"free-will\" to be given me, nor anything to be left in my own hands to enable me to endeavour after salvation; not merely because in face of so many dangers, and adversities and assaults of devils, I could not stand my ground ; but because even were there no dangers. I should still be forced to labour with no guarantee of success.\u00a6 But now that God has taken my salvation out of the control of my own will, and put it under the control of His, and promised to save me, not according to my working or running, but according to His own grace and mercy, I have the comfortable certainty that He is faithful and will not lie to me, and that He is also great and powerful, so that no devils or opposition can break Him or pluck me from Him. Furthermore, I have the comfortable certainty that I please God, not by reason of the merit of my works, but by reason of His merciful favour promised to me; so that, if I work too little, or badly, He does not impute it to me, but with fatherly compassion pardons me and makes me better. This is the glorying of all the saints in their God.",
  "* We refuse to have our conscience bound by any work or law, so that by doing this or that we should be righteous, or leaving this or that undone we should be damned.",
  "* Our stubbornness is right, because we want to preserve the liberty which we have in Christ. Only by preserving our liberty shall we be able to retain the truth of the Gospel inviolate.",
  "* Some will object that the Law is divine and holy. Let it be divine and holy. The Law has no right to tell me that I must be justified by it.",
  "* Leave the ass burdened with laws behind in the valley. But your conscience, let it ascend with Isaac into the mountain.",
  "* The Law continues to exist and to function. But it no longer exists for me.",
  "* When you see a person squirming in the clutches of the Law, say to him: \u201cBrother, get things straight. You let the Law talk to your conscience. Make it talk to your flesh.",
  "* I know that a Christian should be humble, but against the Pope I am going to be proud and say to him: \u201cYou, Pope, I will not have you for my boss, for I am sure that my doctrine is divine.\u201d",
  "* The true Gospel has it that we are justified by faith alone, without the deeds of the Law.",
  "* To turn ones eyes away from Jesus means to turn them to the Law.",
  "* Paul calleth the Galatians foolish and bewitched, comparing them to children, to whom witchcraft doth much harm. As though he should say: It happeneth to you as it doth to children, whom witches, sorcerers, and enchanters are wont to charm by their enchantments, and by the illusions of the devil. Afterwards, in the fifth chapter, he rehearseth sorcery among the works of the flesh, which is a kind of witchcraft, whereby he plainly testifieth, that indeed such witchcraft and sorcery there is, and that it may be done. Moreover, it cannot be denied but that the devil, yea, and reigneth throughout the whole world. Witchcraft and sorceru therefore are the works of the devil; whereby he doth not only hurt men, but also, by the permission of God, he sometimes destroyeth them. Furthermore, we are all subject to the devil, both in body and goods; and we be strangers in this world, whereof he is the prince and god. Therefore the bread which we eat, the drink which we drink, the garments which we wear, yea, the air, and whatsoever we live by in the flesh is under his dominion.",
  "*For Christ is Joy and Sweetness to a broken heart. Christ is a Lover of poor sinners, and such a Lover that He gave Himself for us. Now if this is true, and it is true, then are we never justified by our own righteousness.",
  "* Let us not flutter too high, but remain by the manger and the swaddling clothes of Christ, in whom dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily.  ",
  "* Superstition, idolatry, and hypocrisy have ample wages, but truth goes a-begging.",
  "*The Clergy is the greatest hindrance to faith.",
  "* For where God built a church, there the Devil would also build a chapel...Thus is the Devil ever Gods ape.",
  "* so it is with human reason, which strives not against faith, when enlightened, but rather furthers and advances it.",
  "* Mother love is stronger than the filth and scabbiness on a child, and so the love of God toward us is stronger than the dirt that clings to us.",
  "* A faithful and good servant is a real godsend; but truly tis a rare bird in the land.",
  "* The Mass is the greatest blasphemy of God, and the highest idolatry upon earth, an abomination the like of which has never been in Christendom since the time of the Apostles.",
  "* There is no more lovely, friendly and charming relationship, communion or company than a good marriage.",
  "*I am entirely of the opinion that the papacy is the Antichrist. But if anyone wants to add the Turk, then the Pope is the spirit of the Antichrist, and the Turk is the flesh of the Antichrist. They help each other in their murderous work. The latter slaughters bodily and by the sword, the former spiritually and by doctrine.",
  "* A theologian is born by living, nay dying and being damned, not by thinking, reading, or speculating.",
  "* Reason is the greatest enemy that faith has: it never comes to the aid of spiritual things, but--more frequently than not--struggles against the divine Word, treating with contempt all that emanates from God.",
  "* Out of special hatred for our faith, the devil has sent some whores here to destroy our poor young men . . . such a syphilitic whore can poison ten, twenty, thirty or more of the children of good people, and thus is to be considered a murderer, or worse, as a poisoner.",
  "* And I must speak plainly. If I were a judge, I would have such a poisonous, syphilitic whore tortured by being broken on the wheel and having her veins lacerated, for it is not to be denied what damage such a filthy whore does to young blood, so that it is unspeakably damaged before it is even fully grown and destroyed in the blood. ",
  "* The reproduction of mankind is a great marvel and mystery. Had God consulted me in the matter, I should have advised him to continue the generation of the species by fashioning them of clay, in the way Adam was fashioned.",
  "* But the Jews are so hardened that they listen to nothing; though overcome by testimonies they yield not an inch. It is a pernicious race, oppressing all men by their usury and rapine. If they give a prince or magistrate a thousand florins, they extort twenty thousand from the subjects in payment. We must ever keep on guard against them.",
  "*When the devil comes at night to worry me, this is what I say to him: \u201cDevil, I have to sleep now. That is God\u2019s commandment, for us to work by day and sleep at night.\u201d If he keeps on nagging me and trots out my sins, then I answer: \u201cSweet devil, I know the whole list. But I have done even more sin which is not on your list. Write there also that I have shit in my breeches. Hang it around your neck and wipe your mouth on it.\u201d Then, if he won\u2019t cease to accuse me of sins, I say in contempt: \u201cHoly Satan, pray for me.\u201d (\"Sancte Satane, ora pro me\").",
  "*I think these things [firearms] were invented by Satan himself, for they can\u2019t be defended against with (ordinary) weapons and fists. All human strength vanishes when confronted with firearms. A man is dead before he sees what\u2019s coming.",
  "*They are splendidly built [Italian Hospitals], the best food and drink are at hand, the attendants are very diligent, the physicians are learned, the beds and coverings are very clean, and the bedsteads are painted. As soon as a sick man is brought in, all his clothes are taken off in the presence of a notary and are faithfully kept for him. He is then laid in a handsomely painted bed with clean sheets. Two physicians are fetched at once. Attendants come with food and drink, served in immaculate glass vessels; these are not touched with as much as a finger but are brought on a tray.",
  "** We are beggars: this is true.",
  "* Faith, like light, should ever be simple and unbending; while love, like warmth, should beam forth on every side, and bend to every necessity of our brethren.",
  "* Faith looks to the word and the promise; that is, to the truth. But hope looks to that which the word has promised, to the gift.",
  "* We believe that the very beginning and end of salvation, and the sum of Christianity, consists of faith in Christ, who by His blood alone, and not by any works of ours, has put away sin, and destroyed the power of death.",
  "* Faith ever says, \"If Thou wilt,\" not \"If Thou canst.\"",
  "* We may search long to find where God is, but we shall find Him in those who keep the words of Christ. For the Lord Christ saith, \" If any man love me, he will keep my words; and we will make our abode with him.\"",
  "* The believing man hath the Holy Ghost; and where the Holy Ghost dwelleth, He will not suffer a man to be idle, butstirreth him up to all exercises of piety and godliness, and of true religion, to the love of God, to the patient suffering of afflictions, to prayer, to thanksgiving, and the exercise of charity towards all men.",
  "* Merit is a work for the sake of which Christ gives rewards. But no such work is to be found, for Christ gives by promise. Just as if a prince should say to me, \"Come to me in my castle, and I will give you a hundred florins.\" I do a work, certainly, in going to the castle, but the gift is not given me as the reward of my work in going, but because the prince promised it to me.",
  "* Let us keep to Christ, and cling to Him, and hang on Him, so that no power can remove us.",
  "* the human being, corrupted to the root, can neither desire nor perform anything but evil.",
  "** Translation: Here I stand; I can do no other.",
  "* Here I stand; I can do no otherwise. God help me. Amen!",
  "* I\u2019d rather be ruled by a competent Turk than an incompetent Christian.",
  "* Whoever drinks beer, he is quick to sleep; whoever sleeps long, does not sin; whoever does not sin, enters Heaven! Thus, let us drink beer!",
  "* Do not fight against these harmful spells. For you do not know what God wants with them. You do not know the greater divine plan behind it all.\" ",
  "* Even if I knew the world would end tomorrow, I would continue to plant my apple trees."
]