[
  "* The crude product of nature, the object fashioned by the industry of man, acquire their reality, their identity, only to the extent of their participation in a transcendent reality.",
  "* In virtue of this, the artisan is a connoisseur of secrets, a magician; thus all crafts include some kind off initiation and are handed down by an occult tradition. He who makes real things is he who knows the secret of making them.",
  "* The Experience of Sacred Space makes possible the \"founding of the world\": where the sacred Manifests itself in space, the real unveils itself, the world comes into existence.",
  "* hierophany. It is a fitting term, because it does not imply anything further; it expresses no more than is implicit in its etymological content, i.e., that something sacred shows itself to us. It could be said that the history of religions \u2014 from the most primitive to the most highly developed \u2014 is constituted by a great number of hierophanies, by manifestations of sacred realities. From the most elementary hierophany \u2014 e.g. manifestation of the sacred in some ordinary object, a stone or a tree \u2014 to the supreme hierophany (which, for a Christian, is the incarnation of God in Jesus Christ) there is no solution of continuity. In each case we are confronted by the same mysterious act \u2014 the manifestation of something of a wholly different order, a reality that does not belong to our world, in objects that are an integral part of our natural \"profane\" world.",
  "* These thirty years, and more, that Ive spent among exotic, barbaric, indomitable gods and goddesses, nourished on myths, obsessed by symbols, nursed and bewitched by so many images which have come down to me from those submerged worlds, today seem to me to be the stages of a long initiation. Each one of these divine figures, each of these myths or symbols, is connected to a danger that was confronted and overcome. How many times I was almost lost, gone astray in this labyrinth where I risked being killed... These were not only bits of knowledge acquired slowly and leisurely in books, but so many encounters, confrontations, and temptations. I realize perfectly well now all the dangers I skirted during this long quest, and, in the first place, the risk of forgetting that I had a goal... that I wanted to reach a \"center\".",
  "* For those to whom a stone reveals itself as sacred, its immediate reality is transmuted into supernatural reality. In other words, for those who have a religious experience all nature is capable of revealing itself as cosmic sacrality.",
  "* A religious phenomenon will only be recognized as such if it is grasped at its own level, that is to say, if it is studied as something religious. To try to grasp the essence of such phenomenon by means of physiology, sacred.",
  "* Psychoanalysis justifies its importance by asserting that it forces you to look to and accept reality. But what sort of reality? A reality conditioned by the materialistic and scientific ideology of psychoanalysis, that is, a historical product...",
  "* The History of Religions is destined to play an important role in contemporary cultural life. This is not only because an understanding of exotic and archaic religions will significantly assist in a cultural dialogue with the representatives of such religions. It is more especially because \u2026 the history of religions will inevitably attain to a deeper knowledge of man. It is on the basis of such knowledge that a new humanism, on a world-wide scale, could develop.",
  "* It is not without fear and trembling that a historian of religion approaches the problem of myth. This is not only because of that preliminary embarrassing question: what is intended by myth? It is also because the answers given depend for the most part on the documents selected.",
  "* The history of religions reaches down and makes contact with that which is essentially human: the relation of man to the sacred. The history of religions can play an extremely important role in the crisis we are living through. The crises of modern man are to a large extent religious ones, insofar as they are an awakening of his awareness to an absence of meaning.",
  "* The interpretations of Freud are more and more successful because they are among the myths accessible to modern man. The myth of the murdered father, among others, reconstituted and interpreted in Totem and Taboo. It would be impossible to ferret out a single example of slaying the father in primitive religions or mythologies. This myth was created by Freud. And what is more interesting: the intellectual \u00e9lite accept it (is it because they understand it? Or because it is \"true\" for modern man?)",
  "* TRINITY. Trinitarian doctrine touches on virtually every aspect of Christian faith, theology, and piety, including Christology and pneumatology, theological epistemology (faith, revelation, theological methodology), spirituality and mystical theology, and ecelesial life (sacraments, community, ethics). This article summarizes the main lines of trinitarian doctrine without presenting detailed explanations of important ideas, persons, or terms. The doctrine of the Trinity is the summary of Christian faith in union with God, who through Jesus Christ redeems the world, and in the power of the Holy Spirit transforms and divinizes (2 Cor. 3:18). The heart of trinitarian theology is the conviction that the God revealed in Jesus Christ is involved faithfully and unalterably in covenanted relationship with the world. Christianity is not unique in believing God is \"someone\" rather than something,\" but it is unique in its belief that Christ is the personal Word of God, and that through Christs death and resurrection into new life, \"God was in Christ reconciling all things to God\" (2 Cor. 5:19). Christ is not looked upon as an intermediary between God and world but as an essential agent of salvation. The Spirit poured out at Pentecost, by whom we live in Christ and are returned to God (Father), is also not a \"lesser God\" but one and the same God who creates and redeems us. The doctrine of the Trinity is the product of reflection on the events of redemptive history, especially the Incarnation and the sending of the Spirit.",
  "* Exegetes and theologians today are in agreement that the Hebrew Bible does not contain a doctrine of the Trinity, even though it was customary in past dogmatic tracts on the Trinity to cite texts like Genesis 1:26, \"Let us make humanity in our image, after our likeness\" (see also Gn. 3:22, 11:7; Is. 6:23) as proof of plurality in God. Although the Hebrew Bible depicts God as the father of Israel and employs personifications of God such as Word (davar), Spirit (ruah), Wisdom (hokhmah), and Presence (shekhinah), it would go beyond the intention and spirit of the Old Testament to correlate these notions with later trinitarian doctrine. Further, exegetes and theologians agree that the New Testament also does not contain an explicit doctrine of the Trinity. God the Father is source of all that is (Pantokrator) and also the father of Jesus Christ; \"Father\" is not a title for the first person of the Trinity but a synonym for God. Early liturgical and creedal formulas speak of God as \"Father of our Lord Jesus Christ\"; praise is to be rendered to God through Christ (see opening greetings in Paul and deutero-Paul).",
  "* It is above all the valorizing of the present that requires emphasizing. The simple fact of existing, of living in time, can comprise a religious dimension. This dimension is not always obvious, since sacrality is in a sense camouflaged in the immediate, in the \"natural\" and the everyday. The joy of life discovered by the Greeks is not a profane type of enjoyment: it reveals the bliss of existing, of sharing \u2014 even fugitively \u2014 in the spontaneity of life and the majesty of the world. Like so many others before and after them, the Greeks learned that the surest way to escape from time is to exploit the wealth, at first sight impossible to suspect, of the lived instant.",
  "* To believe that I could, at twenty-three, sacrifice history and culture for \"the Absolute\" was further proof that I had not understood India. My vocation was culture, not sainthood.",
  "* When the sacred manifests itself in any hierophany, there is not only a break in the homogeneity of space; there is also a revelation of an absolute reality, opposed to the nonreality of the vast surrounding expanse. The manifestation of the sacred ontologically founds the world. In the homogenous and infinite expanse, in which no point of reference is possible and hence no orientation can be established, the hierophany reveals an absolute fixed point, a center.",
  "* It would be frightening to think that in all the cosmos, which is so harmonious, so complete and equal to itself, that only human life is happening randomly, that only ones destiny lacks meaning.",
  "* The way towards wisdom or towards freedom is the way towards your inner being. This is the simplest definition of metaphysics.",
  "* The worldly man lives in society, marries, establishes a family; Yoga prescribes absolute solitude and chastity. The worldly man is \u201cpossessed\u201d by his own life; the yogin refuses to \u201clet himself live\u201d; to continual movement, he opposes his static posture, the immobility of \u0101sana; to agitated, unrhythmical, changing respiration, he opposes pr\u0101n\u0101y\u0101ma, and even dreams of holding his breath indefinitely; to the chaotic flux of psychomental life, he replies by \u201cfixing thought on a single point,\u201d the first step to that final withdrawal from the phenomenal world which he will obtain through praty\u0101h\u0101ra. All of the yogic techniques invite to one and the same gesture\u2014to do exactly the opposite of what human nature forces one to do. From solitude and chastity to samyama, there is no solution of continuity. The orientation always remains the same\u2014to react against the \u201cnormal,\u201d \u201csecular,\u201d and finally \u201chuman\u201d inclination.",
  "**Mircea Eliade, on the riots in Dhaka, in his travel diary for 1928-31. Journal des Indes, 1992. p. 128. quoted in     Elst, K. (2010). The saffron swastika: The notion of \"Hindu fascism\". p 803.",
  "* The hearer of myth, regardless of his level of culture, when he is listening to a myth, forgets, as it were, his particular situation and is projected into another world, into another universe which is no longer his poor little universe of every day. . . . The myths are true because they are sacred, because they tell him about sacred beings and events. Consequently, in reciting or listening to a myth, one resumes contact with the sacred and with reality, and in so doing one transcends the profane condition, the \"historical situation.\" In other words one goes beyond the temporal condition and the dull self-sufficiency which is the lot of every human being simply because every human being is \"ignorant\" \u2014 in the sense that he is identifying himself, and Reality, with his own particular situation. And ignorance is, first of all, this false identification of Reality with what each one of us appears to be or to possess. ",
  "* The great cosmic illusion is a hierophany.... One is devoured by believes in its reality, and therefore forgets or despises eternity. ",
  "* It is only through the discovery of Hegel and his successors \u2014 it is only through the radical assimilation of the new mode of being represented by human existence in the world that myth could be left behind. But we hesitate to say that mythical thought has been abolished. As we shall soon see, it managed to survive, though radically changed (if not perfectly camouflaged). And the astonishing fact is that, more than anywhere else it survives in historiography!",
  "* In archaic and traditional societies, the surrounding world is conceived as a microcosm. At the limits of this closed world begins the domain of the unknown, of the formless. On this side there is ordered \u2014 because of inhabited and organized \u2014 space; on the other, outside this familiar space, there is the unknown and dangerous region of the demons, the ghosts, and the dead and foreigners \u2014 in a world, chaos or death or night. This image of an inhabited microcosm, surrounded by desert regions as a chaos or a kingdom of the dead, has survived even in highly evolved civilizations such as those of China, Mesopotamia and Egypt.",
  "* For the past fifty years at least, Western scholars have approached the study of logos and, later, with historia, mythos came in the end to denote \"what cannot really exist.\" On its side, Judaeo-Christianity put the stamp of \"falsehood\" and \"illusion\" on whatever was not justified or validated by the two Testaments.",
  "* Myth is an extremely complex cultural reality, which can be approached and interpreted from various and complementary viewpoints. Speaking for myself, the definition that seems least inadequate because most embracing is this: Myth narrates a sacred history; it relates an event that took place in primordial Time, the fabled time of the \"beginnings.\" In other words myth tells how, through the deeds of Supernatural Beings, a reality came into existence, be it the whole of reality, the Cosmos, or only a fragment of reality \u2014 an island, a species of plant, a particular kind of human behavior, an institution. Myth, then, is always an account of a \"creation\"; it relates how something was produced, began to be. Myth tells only of that which really happened, which manifested itself completely. The actors in myths are Supernatural Beings. They are known primarily by what they did in the transcendent times of the \"beginnings.\" hence myths disclose their creative activity and reveal the sacredness (or simply the \"supernaturalness\") of their works. In short, myths describe the various and sometimes dramatic breakthroughs of the sacred (or the \"supernatural\") into the World. It is this sudden breakthrough of the sacred that really establishes the World and makes it what it is today. Furthermore, it is as a result of the intervention of Supernatural Beings that man himself is what he is today, a mortal, sexed, and cultural being.",
  "* Whereas \"time (usually in autumn or winter, and only at night).... This Gesar cycle can be recited only at night and in winter.",
  "* In one way or another one \"lives\" the myth, in the sense that one is seized by the sacred, exalting power of the events recollected or re-enacted. \"Living\" a myth, then, implies a genuinely \"religious\" experience, since it differs from the ordinary experience of everyday life. The \"religiousness\" of this experience is due to the fact that one re-enacts fabulous, exalting, significant events, one again witnesses the creative deeds of the Supernaturals; one ceases to exist in the everyday world and enters a transfigured, auroral world impregnated with the Supernaturals presence. What is involved is not a commemoration of mythical events but a reiteration of them. The protagonists of the myth are made present; one becomes their contemporary. This also implies that one is no longer living in chronological time, but in the primordial Time, the Time when the event first took place. This is why we can use the term the \"strong time\" of myth; it is the prodigious, \"sacred\" time when something new, strong, and significant was manifested. To re-experience that time, to re-enact it as often as possible, to witness again the spectacle of the divine works, to meet with the Supernaturals and relearn their creative lesson is the desire that runs like a pattern through all the ritual reiterations of myths. In short, myths reveal that the World, man, and life have a supernatural origin and history, and that this history is significant, precious, and exemplary.",
  "* In imitating the exemplary acts of a god or of a mythic magically re-enters the Great Time, the sacred time.",
  "* As long as you have not grasped that you have to die to grow, you are a troubled guest on the dark earth."
]