[
  "* Nothing would please me more, but who else would pump the America. ",
  "* Libya lived for 5000 years without oil and it is ready to live another 5000 years without it.",
  "* I have nothing to say to him [Israeli dog.",
  "* When I met Nasser, he said to me, \"I see myself when I was young in you. You are the future for the Arab revolution.\" This meant very, very much to me.",
  "* Lincoln was a man who created himself from nothing without any help from outside or other people. I followed his struggles. I see certain similarities between him and me.",
  "* We [Libyans] support the Palestinian resistance, and all the world supports this. We support their just cause, but we are against terrorism.",
  "* Americans are good people. They have no aggressions against us and they like us as we like them. They must know I dont hate them. I love them.\u2026 I hear it is a complex society inside. Many Americans dont know about the outside world. The majority have no concern and no information about other people. They could not even find Zionist lobby. The Americans do not see this. They are getting decadent. Zionists will use this to destroy them.",
  "* Reagan is mad. If he were here, I would tell him the truth about us. He hears about us only through hostile sources.",
  "* Reagan plays with fire. He doesnt care about international peace. He plays as if he was in the theater. Reagan wants to dominate the world. He wants to find justification to make war. If he does this, if it goes on like this, a cataclysm will take place. Reagan should come and see that I am not a terrorist in a trench with a grenade in my pocket.",
  "* My brother! You are my brother for the rest of my life!",
  "*I do not support peace in the Arafat. He is a stupid, incompetent fool!... The stupid fool is a zealot, a warrior, and a clever one. But he doesnt accomplish anything.",
  "* The times of Arab nationalism and unity are gone forever. These ideas which mobilized the masses are only a worthless currency. Libya has had to put up with too much from the Arabs for whom it has poured forth both blood and money.",
  "* The Libyans said theyll buy their way out of these three [terrorism] black lists. Well pay so much, to hell with $2 billion or more. Its not compensation. Its a price. The Americans said it was Libya who did it. It is known that the president was madman Reagan whos got Alzheimers and has lost his mind. He now crawls on all fours.",
  "* The black people\u2019s struggle has vanquished racism. It was God who created colour. Today Obama, a son of Kenya, a son of Africa, has made it in the United States of America.",
  "* During my term in AU, I will initiate an organised compensation claim for Africa and I will fight for a greater voice for Africa in the United Nations Security Council. If they do not want to live with us fairly, it is our planet and they can go to another planet.",
  "*I am an international leader, the dean of the Arab rulers, the king of kings of Africa and the imam of Muslims, and my international status does not allow me to descend to a lower level.",
  "* Whats going on? \u2026 What you are doing is not allowed in Islamic law [halal]. What you are doing is forbidden in Islam [haraam]! \u2026 Do you know right from wrong?",
  "* Let the free people of the world know that we could have bargained over and sold out our cause in return for a personal secure and stable life. We received many offers to this effect but we chose to be at the vanguard of the confrontation as a badge of duty and honour.",
  "* Your armed forces have toppled the reactionary, backward and corrupt regime. With one strike your heroic army has toppled idols and destroyed them in one of Providences fateful moments. As of now Libya shall be free and sovereign, a Libyan Arab Republic. No oppressed or deceived or wronged, no master and no slave; but free brothers in a society over which, God willing, shall flutter the banner of brotherhood and equality. And thus shall we build glory, revive heritage and avenge a wounded dignity. Sons of the Bedouins, sons of the desert, sons of the ancient cities, sons of the countryside, sons of the villages, the hour of work has struck and so let us forge ahead.",
  "* Irrespective of the conflict with America, it is a human duty to show sympathy with the American people and be with them at these horrifying and awesome events which are bound to awaken human conscience. When I was five, my brother was shot by an Israeli soldier, since then I have been dedicated to uniting the Arab countries throughout the Middle East and retain a trade flow with the west.",
  "*car-bomb. We must train women to place explosives in cars and blow them up in the midst of enemies, and blow up houses so that they can collapse on enemy soldiers. Traps must be prepared. You have seen how the enemy checks baggage: we must fix these suitcases in order for them to explode when they open them. Women must be taught to place mines in cupboards, bags, shoes, childrens toys so that they explode on enemy soldiers.",
  "* There is no state with a democracy except Libya on the whole planet.",
  "*In the Middle East, the opposition is quite different than the opposition in advanced countries. In our countries, the opposition takes the form of explosions, assassinations, killings.",
  "* It was our hope that Libya with its revolution would become a model of freedom, popular democracy and a state free from oppression and injustice. However Libya became another conventional state, even a dictatorial or police state. This is deeply regrettable. We are not like that, nor do we want to be like that.",
  "* We have 50 million Muslims in Europe. There are signs that Allah will grant Islam victory in Europe\u2014without swords, without guns, without conquest\u2014will turn it into a Muslim continent within a few decades.",
  "* There are serious mistakes, among them the one saying that Jesus came as a messenger for other people other than the sons of Israel.\u2026 Mohammed.\u2026 All those believers who do not follow Islam are losers.",
  "* Today there is a divide that we must acknowledge, and we must know who is deepening it. Perhaps it is Persians\u2014that is deepening it.\u2026 They have divided Islam into two Islams, and there came to be Shiite Islam and Sunni Islam. This is a bida [heresy]\u2026 When did Muhammad say: \"I have brought you Shiite Islam and Sunni Islam?\"\u2026 they have now begun to group the Arabs against Iran and Iran against the Arabs, and then Shiites against Sunnis and Sunnis against Shiites.\u2026 Are we Muslims, or are we Shiites and Sunnis?! For whose benefit is this? It is for the benefit of the \"other\" that we are speaking about, for the benefit of the enemy, for the benefit of colonialism.",
  "*Whenever I ask about Pepsi-Cola or Coca-Cola, people immediately say it is an American or European drink. This is not true. The kola is African. They have taken the cheap raw material from us. They produced it, they made it into a drink, and they sell it to us for a high price. Why are Pepsi-Cola and Coca-Cola expensive? Because they have taken our kola, produced it, and sold it back to us. We should produce it ourselves and sell it to them.",
  "* The statements of our Kenyan brother of American nationality, Obama, on international politics and did not study the Middle East conflict or that it [Barack Obamas expression of solidarity with Israel] is a campaign lie. We fear that Obama will feel that, because he is black with an inferiority complex, this will make him behave worse than the whites. This will be a tragedy. We tell him to be proud of himself as a black and feel that all Africa is behind him. ",
  "* I am not going to leave this land. I will die as a martyr at the end. I shall remain, defiant. Muammar is Leader of the Revolution until the end of time.",
  "* I am a Bedouin warrior who brought glory to Libya and will die a martyr.",
  "* The integrity of Tiananmen Square.",
  "** Radio address on rebel forces in Tripoli, as quoted in [http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/libya/8713761/Libya-conflict-Col-Gaddafi-faces-rebel-uprising-on-streets-of-Tripoli.html \"Libya conflict: Col Gaddafi faces rebel uprising on streets of Tripoli\" in The Telegraph (21 August 2011)]",
  "* We will fight in every valley, in every street, in every oasis, and every town. We wont surrender again; we are not women; we will keep fighting.",
  "*I call on the Libyan people, men and women, to go out into the squares and the streets in all the cities in their millions. \u2026 Go peacefully... be courageous, rise up, go to the streets, raise our green flags to the skies. \u2026 Dont be afraid of anyone. You are the people. You have right on your side. You are the rightful people of this land.",
  "*The most tyrannical dictatorships the world has known have existed under the aegis of parliaments.",
  "*The era of the masses, which follows the age of the republics, excites the feelings and dazzles the eyes. But even though the vision of this era denotes genuine freedom of the masses and their happy authoritarian structures, it warns also of the dangers of a period of chaos and demagoguery, and the threat of a return to the authority of the individual, the sect and party, instead of the authority of the people. Theoretically, this is genuine democracy but, realistically, the strong always rules. That is, the stronger party in the society is the one that rules.",
  "* Man\u2019s freedom is lacking if somebody else controls what he needs, for need may result in man\u2019s enslavement of man.",
  "*Any class which becomes heir to a society, inherits, at the same time, its characteristics. That is to say that if the working class crushes all other classes, for instance, it becomes heir of the society, that is, it becomes the material and social base of the society. The heir bears the traits of the one he inherits from, though they may not be evident at once. As time passes, attributes of other eliminated classes emerge in the very ranks of the working class. And the possessors of those characteristics take the attitudes and points of view appropriate to their characteristics. Thus the working class turns out to be a separate society, showing the same contradictions as the old society.",
  "*Popular congresses are the only means to achieve popular democracy. Any system of government other than popular congresses is undemocratic.",
  "* We have been hurt more morally that physically because of what had happened against us in both deeds and words by you. Despite all this you will always remain our son whatever happened. We still pray that you continue to be president of the U.S.A. We Endeavour and hope that you will gain victory in the new election campaigne. You are a man who has enough courage to annul a wrong and mistaken action. I am sure that you are able to shoulder the responsibility for that. Enough evidence is available, Bearing in mind that you are the president of the strongest power in the world nowadays, and since Nato is waging an unjust war against a small people of a developing country. This country had already been subjected to embargo and sanctions, furthermore it also suffered a direct military armed aggression during Reagan\u2019s time. This country is Libya. Hence, to serving world peace \u2026 Friendship between our peoples \u2026 and for the sake of economic, and security cooperation against terror, you are in a position to keep Nato off the Libyan affair for good.",
  "* As you know too well democracy and building of civil society cannot be achieved by means of missiles and aircraft, or by backing armed member of AlQuaeda in Benghazi.",
  "* You \u2014 yourself \u2014 said on many occasions, one of them in the UN General Assembly, I was witness to that personally, that America is not responsible for the security of other peoples. That America helps only. This is the right logic.",
  "* Our dear son, Excellency, Baraka Hussein Abu oumama, your intervention is the name of the U.S.A. is a must, so that Nato would withdraw finally from the Libyan affair. Libya should be left to Libyans within the African union frame. The problem now stands as follows:-",
  "* 1. There is Nato intervention politically as well as military.",
  "* 2. Terror conducted by AlQaueda gangs that have been armed in some cities, and by force refused to allow people to go back to their normal life, and carry on with exercising their social people\u2019s power as usual.",
  "* Why should we be closer to the Soviets? Because the Americans have challenged us. America is involved in a conspiracy [against the Arab world], primarily because of its policy toward Israel. In our view, whoever is against the Americans stands with us. The enemy of your enemy is your friend.",
  "* Israel is a colonialist-imperialist phenomenon. There is no such thing as an Israeli people. Before 1948, world geography knew of no state such as Israel. Israel is the result of an invasion, of aggression. ",
  "* Did Libya invade Italy or was it Italy that invaded Libya? You attack us now as you did then. In other ways, with other systems, by supporting Israel, opposing Arab unity and our revolutions, frowning on Islam and calling us fanatics. We\u2019ve been too patient with you. We\u2019ve put up with your provocation for too long. If we hadn\u2019t been so wise, we would have gone to war with you a thousand times. We didn\u2019t because we think the use of force is a last resort for survival and because we have always been on the side of civilisation. After all, during the Middle Ages we civilised you. You were poor barbarians, primitive, savage creatures.",
  "* The science you enjoy now is the science we taught you. The medicine you treat yourselves with is the medicine we gave you. It\u2019s the same with the astronomy you know, the mathematics, the literature, the art...",
  "* I think these Western phenomena derive from capitalist society. They\u2019re movements denoting rejection of a society that has to be torn down. Whether they are called the Red Brigades or the hippies or Children of God. And even though I\u2019m against kidnappings and hijackings, I don\u2019t want to interfere with what they\u2019re doing.",
  "* We are not responsible for what might be done with the weapons we give to the Palestinians. We give them to the Palestinians because we believe in their cause and we believe we have a duty to help them. What happens afterwards is none of my business. If I am to be found guilty by proxy, I prefer charges that are direct. But there is no proof.",
  "* Revolution is when the masses make the revolution. A people\u2019s revolution. But even when the revolution is made by others in the name of the masses, expressing what the masses want, it can be revolution. A people\u2019s revolution because it has the support of the masses and interprets the will of the masses.",
  "* I staged a coup d\u2019\u00e9tat and the workers staged the revolution, occupying the factories, becoming partners instead of employees, eliminating the monarchic administration and setting up people\u2019s committees. In short, they liberated themselves. Students did the same. Today in Libya, only the people count.",
  "* Hitler and Mussolini exploited the support of the masses to rule the people. We revolutionaries enjoy the support of the masses to help the people become capable of ruling themselves on their own. I myself am constantly appealing to the masses to govern on their own. I say to my people: \u2018If you love me, listen to me. And govern yourselves on your own\u2019. That\u2019s why they love me because, unlike Hitler, who said \u2018I\u2019ll do it all for you\u2019, I say \u2018Do it on your own.",
  "* When everyone is part of the people\u2019s congress, what need is there for an opposition? Opposition to what? You oppose a government! If there is no government, and the people govern themselves on their own, what are they going to oppose? Something that isn\u2019t there?",
  "* We believe America is practicing all kinds of terrorism against Libya. Even the accusation that we are involved in terrorism is in itself an act of terrorism.",
  "*  I have nothing but scorn for the notion of an Islamic bomb. There is no such thing as an Islamic bomb or a Christian bomb. Any such weapon is a means of terrorizing humanity, and we are against the manufacture and acquisition of nuclear weapons. This is in line with our definition of\u2014and opposition to\u2014terrorism.",
  "* Africa is closer to me in every way than Iraq or Syria.",
  "* Libya is an African country. May Allah help the Arabs and keep them away from us. We dont want anything to do with them. They did not fight with us against the Italians, and they did not fight with us against the Americans. They did not lift the sanctions and siege from us. On the contrary, they gloated at us, and benefited from our hardship\u2026.",
  "* I wont be a party to a conspiracy to mobilize the Arabs against the Persians. Only the forces of colonialism benefit from such a conspiracy. I wont be a party to a conspiracy that splits Islam into two - Shiite Islam and Sunni Islam \u2013 mobilizing Sunni Islam against Shiite Islam.",
  "* I am defending the Jews to prevent them from becoming extinct, because they are doomed to become extinct if they continue this way.\u2026 I am convinced that the solution is to establish a democratic state for the Jews and the Palestinians, a state that will be called Palestine, Isratine, or whatever they want. This is the fundamental solution, or else the Jews will be annihilated in the future, because the Palestinians have [strategic] depth.",
  "*I am not the leader of Libya, I am the leader of the Revolution, the revolution is part of the past and took place in 1969, Consequently. Theres no need to talk about one will replace me. I do not have any power to delegate to my successor. The power lies with the people.",
  "* Interviewer: When I was in Tripoli, a slogan caught me, \"Wherever you go, Happiness rains...\" Do you think 40 years after the revolution, Libyan people are happy?Gaddafi: First of all, I have not seen those slogans and I am not responsible for them. Unlike you, I cannot freely taking time to read slogans if I am in the street, its in the middle of convoy, so I have no knowledge of these slogans. But if thats the case the people who thought up that slogans acted with good intentions, they think well of this government and that glads me. Ive done my best to make my people happy and free.",
  "* I think it is peaceful and civil ... civilian activity for investigation of space, or something like this.",
  "* I want provocation. People should take to the streets. Smash those dogs, and tell them: \"you traitors will bring us the British.\"",
  "*Whats wrong with the Spanish? Tell them they do not appreciate their own interests. Tell them we will recognize the Basques. Threaten them with this, and recognize Andalusia. ",
  "*Oil is like drugs. Find the commodity smugglers. Many are adventurous; they will buy from you at a discount and they dont care about embargoes. "
]