[
  "* Suppose that we manage to construct grammars having the properties outlined above. We can then attempt to describe and study the achievement of the speaker, listener, and learner. The speaker and the listener, we must assume, have already acquired the capacities characterized abstractly by the grammar. The speaker\u2019s task is to select a particular compatible set of optional rules. If we know, from grammatical study, what choices are available to him and what conditions of compatibility the choices must meet, we can proceed meaningfully to investigate the factors that lead him to make one or another choice. The listener (or reader) must determine, from an exhibited utterance, what optional rules were chosen in the construction of the utterance. It must be admitted that the ability of a human being to do this far surpasses our present understanding. The child who learns a language has in some sense constructed the grammar for himself on the basis of his observation of sentences and nonsentences (i.e., corrections by the verbal community). Study of the actual observed ability of a speaker to distinguish sentences from nonsentences, detect ambiguities, etc., apparently forces us to the conclusion that this grammar is of an extremely complex and abstract character, and that the young child has succeeded in carrying out what from the formal point of view, at least, seems to be a remarkable type of theory construction. Furthermore, this task is accomplished in an astonishingly short time, to a large extent independently of intelligence, and in a comparable way by all children. Any theory of learning must cope with these facts.",
  "* I would feel no hesitation in saying that it is the responsibility of a decent human being to give assistance to a child who is being attacked by a rabid dog, but I would not intend this to imply that in all imaginable circumstances one must, necessarily, act in accordance with this general responsibility. One can easily concoct imaginary situations in which it would be inadvisable, even immoral to do so [...] [I will not defend] the assumption that it is reprehensible for a powerful nation to invade a weak and tiny neighbor in order to impose on it an \"acceptable\" government [...] just as I would not take the trouble to justify my belief that one should assist a child being attacked by a rabid dog.",
  "* ...I dont feel that they deserve a blanket condemnation at all. There are many things to object to in any society. But take China, modern China; one also finds many things that are really quite admirable. [...] There are even better examples than China. But I do think that China is an important example of a new society in which very interesting positive things happened at the local level, in which a good deal of the collectivization and communization was really based on mass participation and took place after a level of understanding had been reached in the peasantry that led to this next step.",
  "* \"A Review of B. F. Skinners Verbal Behavior\" in Language, 35, No. 1 (1959), 26-58. Summation by Noam Chomsky: Rereading this review after eight years, I find little of substance that I would change if I were to write it today. I am not aware of any theoretical or experimental work that challenges its conclusions; nor, so far as I know, has there been any attempt to meet the criticisms that are raised in the review or to show that they are erroneous or ill-founded.",
  "* Im of course opposed to terror, any rational person is, but I think that if were serious about the question of terror and serious about the question of violence we have to recognize that it is a tactical and hence moral matter. Incidentally, tactical issues are basically moral issues. They have to do with human consequences. And if were interested in, lets say, diminishing the amount of violence in the world, its at least arguable and sometimes true that a terroristic act does diminish the amount of violence in the world. Hence a person who is opposed to violence will not be opposed to that terroristic act.",
  "* After the first International Days of Protest in October, 1965, Senator Mansfield criticized the \"sense of utter irresponsibility\" shown by the demonstrators. He had nothing to say then, nor has he since, about the \"sense of utter irresponsibility\" shown by Senator Mansfield and others who stand by quietly and vote appropriations as the cities and villages of North Vietnam are demolished, as millions of refugees in the South are driven from their homes by American bombardment. He has nothing to say about the moral standards or the respect for international law of those who have permitted this tragedy. I speak of Senator Mansfield precisely because he is not a breast-beating superpatriot who wants America to rule the world, but is rather an American intellectual in the best sense, a scholarly and reasonable man -- the kind of man who is the terror of our age. Perhaps this is merely a personal reaction, but when I look at what is happening to our country, what I find most terrifying is not equanimity with which we view and discuss an unbearable tragedy. We all know that if Russia or China were guilty of what we have done in Vietnam, we would be exploding with moral indignation at these monstrous crimes.",
  "* Within modern linguistics, it is chiefly within the last few years that fairly substantial attempts have been made to construct explicit generative grammars for particular languages and to explore their consequences. No great surprise should be occasioned by the extensive discussion and debate concerning the proper formulation of the theory of generative grammar and the correct description of the languages that have been most intensively studied. The tentative character of any conclusions that can now be advanced concerning linguistic theory, or, for that matter, English grammar, should certainly be obvious to anyone working in this area. (It is sufficient to consider the vast range of linguistic phenomena that have resisted insightful formulation in any terms.) Still, it seems that certain fairly substantial conclusions are emerging and receiving continually increased support. In particular, the central role of grammatical transformations in any empirically adequate generative grammar seems to me to be established quite firmly, though there remain many questions as to the proper form of the theory of transformational grammar.",
  "* In summary, it is the diversity of human behavior, its appropriateness to new situations, and mans capacity to innovate \u2013 the creative aspect of language use providing the principal indication of this \u2013that leads Descartes to attribute possession of mind to other humans, since he regards this capacity as beyond the limitations of any imaginable mechanism.",
  "* Modern linguistics has also failed to deal with the Cartesian observations regarding human language in any serious way.",
  "* The deep structure that expresses the meaning is common to all languages, so it is claimed, being a simple reflection of the forms of thought.",
  "* Cartesian linguistics was not concerned simply with descriptive grammar, in this sense, but rather with \u201cgrammaire g\u00e9n\u00e9rale,\u201d that is, with the universal principles of language structure.",
  "* Despite these shortcomings, the insights into the organization of grammar that were achieved in Cartesian linguistics remain quite impressive, and a careful study of this work can hardly fail to prove rewarding to a linguist who approaches it without prejudice or preconceptions as to the a priori limitations on permitted linguistic investigation.",
  "* The central doctrine of Cartesian linguistics is that the general features of grammatical structure are common to all languages and reflect certain fundamental properties of the mind.",
  "* The war is simply an obscenity, a depraved act by weak and miserable men, including all of us who have allowed it to go on and on with endless fury and destruction - all of us who would have remained silent, had stability and order been secured.",
  "* What can one say about a country where a museum of science in a great city can feature an exhibit in which people fire machine guns from a helicopter at Vietnamese huts, with a light flashing when a hit is scored? What can one say about a country where such an idea can even be considered? You have to weep for this country. [...] To me it seems that what is needed is a kind of denazification.",
  "* No less insidious is the cry for revolution, at a time when not even the germs of new institutions exist, let alone the moral and political consciousness that could lead to a basic modification of social life. If there will be a revolution in America today, it will no doubt be a move towards some variety of fascism. We must guard against the kind of revolutionary rhetoric that would have had Karl Marx burn down the British Museum because it was merely part of a repressive society. It would be criminal to overlook the serious flaws and inadequacies in our institutions, or to fail to utilize the substantial degree of freedom that most of us enjoy, within the framework of these flawed institutions, to modify them or even replace them by a better social order. One who pays some attention to history will not be surprised if those who cry most loudly that we must smash and destroy are later found among the administrators of some new system of repression.",
  "* The consistent anarchist, then, should be a socialist, but a socialist of a particular sort. He will not only oppose alienated and specialized labor and look forward to the appropriation of capital by the whole body of workers, but he will also insist that this appropriation be direct, not exercised by some elite force acting in the name of the proletariat.",
  "* It is the fundamental duty of the citizen to resist and to restrain the violence of the state. Those who choose to disregard this responsibility can justly be accused of complicity in war crimes, which is itself designated as \u2018a crime under international law\u2019 in the principles of the Charter of Nuremberg.",
  "* If we try to keep a sense of balance, the exposures of the past several months are analogous to the discovery that the directors of Murder, Inc. were also cheating on their income tax. Reprehensible, to be sure, but hardly the main point.",
  "* Personally Im in favor of democracy, which means that the central institutions in the society have to be under popular control. Now, under capitalism we cant have democracy by definition. Capitalism is a system in which the central institutions of society are in principle under autocratic control. Thus, a corporation or an industry is, if we were to think of it in political terms, fascist; that is, it has tight control at the top and strict obedience has to be established at every level -- theres a little bargaining, a little give and take, but the line of authority is perfectly straightforward. Just as Im opposed to political fascism, Im opposed to economic fascism. I think that until major institutions of society are under the popular control of participants and communities, its pointless to talk about democracy.",
  "* ...capitalism is basically a system where everything is for sale, and the more money you have, the more you can get. And, in particular, thats true of freedom. Freedom is one of the commodities that is for sale, and if you are affluent, you can have a lot of it. It shows up in all sorts of ways. It shows up if you get in trouble with the law, lets say, or in any aspect of life it shows up. And for that reason it makes a lot of sense, if you accept capitalist system, to try to accumulate property, not just because you want material welfare, but because that guarantees your freedom, it makes it possible for you to amass that commodity. [...] what youre going to find is that the defense of free institutions will largely be in the hands of those who benefit from them, namely the wealthy, and the powerful. They can purchase that commodity and, therefore, they want those institutions to exist, like free press, and all that.",
  "* In the American Jewish community, there is little willingness to face the fact that the Palestinian Arabs have suffered a monstrous historical injustice, whatever one may think of the competing claims. Until this is recognized, discussion of the Middle East crisis cannot even begin.",
  "* Even today, as regards East Timor, where our brutal Indonesian satellite (authors of the 1965-1966 butcheries) have very possibly killed as many people as did the Khmer Rouge, there is a virtually complete blackout of information in the Free Press.  This is a bloodbath carried out by a friendly power and is thus of little interest to our readers.  It is a \u201cbenign bloodbath\u201d in our terminology.",
  "* We will consider the facts about postwar Indochina insofar as they can be ascertained, but a major emphasis will be on the ways in which these facts have been interpreted, filtered, distorted or modified by the ideological institutions in the West.",
  "* When the facts are in, it may well turn out that the more extreme condemnations were in fact correct.  But even if that turns out to be the case, it will in no way alter the conclusions we have reached on the central question addressed here: how the available facts were selected, modified, or sometimes invented to create a certain image offered to the general population.  The answer to this question seems clear, and it is unaffected by whatever may be discovered about Cambodia in the future.",
  "* Our primary concern has been U.S. global policy and propaganda, and the filtering and distorting effect of Western ideology, not the problems of reconstruction and modernization in societies that have been victimized by Western imperialism.  Correspondingly, we have not developed or expressed our views here on the nature of the Indochinese regimes.  To assess the contemporary situation in Indochina and the programs of the current ruling groups is a worthwhile endeavor, but it has not been our current objective. [...] The success of the Free Press in reconstructing imperial ideology since the U.S. withdrawal has been spectacular.  The shift of the United States from causal agent to bystander \u2013 and even to leader of the struggle for human rights \u2013 in the face of its empire of client fascism and long, vicious assault on the peasant societies of Indochina, is a remarkable achievement.  The system of brainwashing under freedom, with mass media voluntary self-censorship in accord with the larger interests of the state, has worked brilliantly.",
  "* Unfortunately, you cant vote the rascals out, because you never voted them in, in the first place.",
  "* The Cold War ideology and the international communist conspiracy function in an important way as essentially a propaganda device to mobilize support at a particular historical moment for this long-time imperial enterprise. In fact, I believe that this is probably the main function of the Cold War: it serves as a useful device for the Soviet Union to control their own populations and their own respective imperial systems.",
  "* Roughly speaking, I think its accurate to say that a corporate elite of managers and owners governs the economy and the political system as well, at least in very large measure. The people, so-called, do exercise an occasional choice among those who Marx once called \"the rival factions and adventurers of the ruling class.\"",
  "*Some time ago I was asked to sign a petition in defense of Robert Faurissons \u201cfreedom of speech and expression.\u201d The petition said absolutely nothing about the character, quality or validity of his research, but restricted itself quite explicitly to a defense of elementary rights that are taken for granted in democratic societies, calling upon university and government officials to \u201cdo everything possible to ensure the [Faurisson\u2019s] safety and the free exercise of his legal rights.\u201d I signed it without hesitation.",
  "*I see no anti-Semitic implications in denial of the existence of gas chambers, or even denial of the HolocaustI see no hint of anti-Semitic implications in Faurissons work",
  "*I find [no] credible evidence [of anti-Semitism or neo-Nazism] in the material that I have read concerning [Faurisson], either in the public record or in private correspondence. As far as I can determine, he is a relatively apolitical liberal of some sort.",
  "*One reason that propaganda often works better on the educated than on the uneducated is that educated people read more, so they receive more propaganda. Another is that they have jobs in management, media, and academia and therefore work in some capacity as agents of the propaganda system--and they believe what the system expects them to believe. By and large, theyre part of the privileged elite, and share the interests and perceptions of those in power.",
  "*The Vietnam War is a classic example of Americas propaganda system. In the mainstream media--the New York Times, CBS, and so on-- there was a lively debate about the war. It was between people called \"doves\" and people called \"hawks.\" The hawks said, \"If we keep at it we can win.\" The doves said, \"Even if we keep at it, it would probably be too costly for use, and besides, maybe were killing too many people.\" Both sides agreed on one thing. We had a right to carry out aggression against South Vietnam. Doves and hawks alike refused to admit that aggression was taking place. They both called our military presence in Southeast Asia the defense of South Vietnam, substituting \"defense\" for \"aggression\" in the standard Orwellian manner. ",
  "* There are significant strategic interests [in Oceania], and theres a lot of stuff going on thats important. Not just the United States. For example, France is doing some really vicious things there, in fact theyre just wiping out islands because they want them for nuclear tests. And when the socialist government in France is asked, \"Why to do this?\", they say, \"Well look, we have to have nuclear tests.\" Well, if you have to have nuclear tests, why not have them in southern France? [audience laughter] Why have them in some island in the Pacific? Well, the answer to that is clear, after all theyre just a bunch of little brown people or something. But you cant say that exactly, especially if youre a socialist, so something else is said.",
  "* From a comparative perspective, the United States is unusual if not unique in the lack of restraints on freedom of expression. It is also unusual in the range and effectiveness of methods employed to restrain freedom of thought... Where the voice of the people is heard, elite groups must insure their voice says the right things... The less the state is able to employ violence in the defense of the interest of the elite groups that effectively dominate it, the more it becomes necessary to devise techniques of \u2018manufacture of consent\u2019... Where obedience is guaranteed by violence, rulers may tend towards a \u2018behaviourist\u2019 conception; it is enough that people obey; what they think does not matter too much. Where the state lacks means of coercion, it is important to control what people think. ",
  "* In certain intellectual circles in France, the very basis for discussion\u2014a minimal respect for facts and logic\u2014has been virtually abandoned.",
  "* Lenin was a right-wing deviation of the socialist movement and he was so regarded...by the mainstream Marxists... Bolshevism was a right-wing deviation.",
  "* There was nothing remotely like socialism in the Soviet Union... [Lenin] didnt believe that it was possible to have socialism in the Soviet Union... He kept the view that the Soviet revolution was a holding action, they just kind of hold things in place, until the real revolution took place in Germany... That, presumably, gave some sort of justification for eliminating the socialist institutions.",
  "* I think it only makes sense to seek out and identify structures of authority, hierarchy, and domination in every aspect of life, and to challenge them; unless a justification for them can be given, they are illegitimate, and should be dismantled, to increase the scope of human freedom.",
  "* The war was a \u201ctragic error,\u201d but not \u201cfundamentally wrong or immoral\u201d (as the overwhelming majority of the American people continue to believe), and surely not criminal aggression - the judgment that would be reached at once on similar evidence if the responsible agent were not the USA, or an ally or client. Our point is not that the retrospectives fail to draw what seem to us, as to much of the population, the obvious conclusions; the more significant and instructive point is that principled objection to the war as \u201cfundamentally wrong and immoral,\u201d or as an outright criminal aggression - a war crime - is inexpressible.  It is not part of the spectrum of discussion.  The background for such a principled critique cannot be developed in the media, and the conclusions cannot be drawn.  It is not present even to be refuted.  Rather, the idea is unthinkable.  All of this reveals with great clarity how foreign to the mobilized media is a conception of the media as a free system of information and discussion, independent of state authority and elite interests.",
  "* Roughly speaking, states are violent to the extent that they have the power to act in the interests of those with domestic power...",
  "* Cuba has probably been the target of more international terrorism than the rest of the world combined and, therefore, in the American ideological system it is regarded as the source of international terrorism, exactly as Orwell would have predicted.",
  "* It goes back to the days when we were defending ourselves against the internal aggression of the Native American population, who we incidentally wiped out in the process. In the post World War II period, weve frequently had to carry out defense against internal aggression, that is against Salvadorans in El Salvador, Greeks in Greece, against Filipinos in the Philippines, against South Vietnamese in South Vietnam, and many other places. And the concept of internal aggression has been repeatedly invoked in this connection, and quite appropriately. Its an interesting concept, its one that George Orwell would certainly have admired, and its elaborated in many ways in the internal documentary record.",
  "* The uniformity and obedience of the media, which any dictator would admire, [...]",
  "* Pointing to the massive amounts of propaganda spewed by government and institutions around the world, observers have called our era the age of Orwell. But the fact is that Orwell was a latecomer on the scene. As early as World War I, American historians offered themselves to President 1984, even before Orwell was writing.",
  "* For those who stubbornly seek freedom around the world, there can be no more urgent task than to come to understand the mechanisms and practices of indoctrination. These are easy to perceive in the totalitarian societies, much less so in the propaganda system to which we are subjected and in which all too often we serve as unwilling or unwitting instruments.",
  "* Israel is an embattled country. They rely very heavily on U.S. support. So they have developed a very sophisticated system of propaganda. They dont call it propaganda. They call it hasbarah. It is the only country I know of in the world that refers to propaganda as explanation. The Ministry of Propaganda is the Ministry of Explanation. The idea being that our position on everything is so obviously correct that if we only explain it to people, they will see that it is right.",
  "* If any of you have ever looked at your FBI file, you discover that intelligence agencies in general are extremely incompetent. Thats one of the reasons why there are so many intelligence failures. They just never get anything straight, for all kinds of reasons. Part of it is because of the information they get. The information they get comes from ideological fanatics, typically, who always misunderstand things in their own crazy way. If you look at an FBI file, say, about yourself, where you know what the facts are, youll see that the information has some kind of relation to the facts, you can figure out what theyre talking about, but by the time it works its way through the ideological fanaticism of the intelligence agencies, theres always weird distortion.",
  "* During the 1960s, large groups of people who are normally passive and apathetic began to try to enter the political arena to press their demands.... The naive might call that democracy, but thats because they dont understand. The sophisticated understand that thats the crisis of democracy.",
  "* Non-violent resistance activities cannot succeed against an enemy that is able freely to use violence. Thats pretty obvious. You cant have non-violent resistance against the Nazis in a concentration camp, to take an extreme case...",
  "* We take for granted that the organism does not learn to grow arms or to reach puberty...  When we turn to the mind and its products, the situation is not qualitatively different from what we find in the case of the body.",
  "* Intrinsic (psychological) structure is rich . . . and diverse.",
  "* [This view is contrasted with all forms of Skinner to Piaget (who differ on much else).",
  "* We may usefully think of the language faculty, the number faculty, and others as mental organs, analogous to the heart or the visual system or the system of motor coordination and planning. There appears to be no clear demarcation line between physical organs, perceptual and motor systems and cognitive faculties in the respects in question.",
  "* Now of course, the idealistic slogans are still needed for the media, for a lot of scholarship, for the schools, and so on. But, where the serious people are, the problem is that we have to maintain this disparity, and obviously its gotta be maintained by force. So none of the idealistic slogans at home. So when youre setting up death squads in El Salvador under the Alliance for Progress, youre not hampered by these idealistic slogans. Thats for the masses, for us. Well, given this kind of thinking, its not too surprising that President Kennedy should say, with regard to El Salvador after supporting a military coup there, that \"Governments of the civil-military type of El Salvador are the most effective in containing communist penetration in Latin America.\" This at the time when he organized the basic framework for the death squads that have been torturing and murdering ever since, and which we attribute to some kind of extreme right-wingers who somehow we cant get under control.",
  "* We have a big argument here about whether Nicaragua and Cuba are sending arms to El Salvador. Well, I dont know, so far theres no evidence that they are, but thats not really the interesting question. I mean, you gotta watch the way questions are framed by the propaganda system. The way its framed is, the doves say theyre not sending arms, and the hawks say they are sending arms. But the real question, which is being suppressed in all of this, is, \"Should they be sending arms?\" And the answer is of course, \"Yes.\" [applause] Everybody should be sending arms. You see, that question is not raised, just as if somebody was talking in, say, the Soviet Union, and the question came up: \"Should somebody send arms to Afghan rebels?\" Well, of course not. You know, thats terrorism or something like that. The point is that its perfectly legitimate to send arms to people who finally try to use violence in self-defense against a gang of mass murderers installed by a foreign power. Of course its legitimate to send them arms.",
  "*On September 1st of last year, the Soviet Union shot down Korean KAL 007, killing 269 people, and the immediate response here was that this proves that the Russians are the most barbaric people since Attila the Hun or something, and therefore we have to step up the attack against Nicaragua, set in MX missiles, put Pershings in West Germany, and increase the military system.... The story was given unbelievable coverage. Not only the story, but the American government interpretation of it, which is roughly what Ive just said, was given the kind of coverage that I doubt has ever been given to any story in history.... Right in the middle of all of this furor about the Korean airliner, on November 11th in fact, there was a 100 word item in the New York Times devoted to the interesting fact that UNITA\u2014which is a group that we call \"freedom fighters\", supported by us and South Africa, in Angola\u2014they took credit for shooting down a civilian Angolan jet, killing 126 people.... Now, under the very confused circumstances of KAL 007, if that was the worst atrocity in human history, well, what about the freedom fighters that we support along with South Africa, who did something much worse?",
  "* When the state says, \"Whip up hysteria against the {{w|evil empire}},\" everybody starts yelling, jumping up and down, and screaming about the evil empire... See, if it happened in, say, Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union, we know how they pulled it off. Namely, an order came from the Ministry of Truth, and everybody had to obey it. Now that didnt happen here. Here it happened in the way American propaganda always works: by servility and cowardice and class interest.",
  "* There have been times, however, when US officials have described whats going on in relatively frank terms; sometimes quite clearly. One put the matter in these words: \"The Central American area down to and including the Isthmus of Panama constitutes a legitimate sphere of influence for the United States [...] We do control the destinies of Central America and we do so for the simple reason that the national interest absolutely dictates such a course [...] We must decide whether we shall tolerate the interference of any other power in Central American affairs, or insist upon our own dominant position [...] Until now, Central America has always understood that governments that we recognize and support stay in power, while those we do not recognize and support, fall [...] Nicaragua has become a test case, it is difficult to see how we can afford to be defeated.\" Thats fairly familiar. These remarks were made by Under Secretary of State Robert Olds in 1927, and the outside power that he was concerned about was Mexico. [audience laughter] Mexico at that time was a Russian proxy. We were no longer fighting Huns in the Dominican Republic, now we were fighting Russians in Nicaragua, and in particular the Russian proxy Mexico. Mexico was then a proxy of the Bolsheviks, so the Marines had to be sent in, once again, and they established Somoza, and established the National Guard which was the basis for American power throughout the region, and in fact one of the most effective murder-incorporated forces down there for many years. They killed Sandino, he was killed off by stealth couple of years later, the guerilla leader. As President Coolidge sent the Marines in, he made the following declaration: \"Mexico is on trial before the world.\" Mexico is on trial before the world as a proxy of the Soviet Union when we send the Marines into Nicaragua. Now things have changed a little bit, now its Nicaragua thats threatening Mexico as a Russian proxy... But again theres the same conclusion, you know, kill the spics and the niggers and so on. That follows no matter whos the proxy for who. And all of this is repeated at every moment of history with great seriousness and awe and so on as if it had some meaning, as if it wasnt just some black comedy.",
  "* Rio de Janeiro, incidentally, is not the poor part of the country, that sort of the rich part of the country. Its not the northeast, where 35 million people or so, nobody knows what happens to them, or cares. But Rio de Janeiro, thats where people are looking, the rich parts. And this journal is a science journal, kinda like Science in the United States. It was studying malnutrition. And heres the figures it had for Rio de Janeiro: infants from 0 to 5 months, severe malnutrition, meaning medically severe, 67%; 5 months to a year, 41%; a year to 5 years, 11%. Now the reason of course for the decline, from 67 to 41 to 11, is that they will die. So thats what happens under the conditions of the economic miracle, like in Guatemala. Now, its a little wrong to say that the people die. The fact is, they dont die. We kill them, thats what happens. We kill them by carrying out policies, supporting the regimes of the kind that Ive described. And by intervening with force and violence to suppress and destroy any attempt, however minimal, even on a speck like Grenada, weve got to stop any attempt to bring some change into this. Thats the history of our hemisphere.",
  "* Theres nothing nice that you can say about any of [the Arab countries]. Syria, for example, is one of the most violent terrorist regimes in the world. But it doesnt happen to be aggressive. Maybe it would like to be, but it isnt. For objective reasons. Theres virtually no correlation between the internal nature of some country and its commitment to external violence. And I think if you look back over history youll never find a correlation, back to the Greeks.",
  "* A lot of the people who call themselves Left I would regard as proto-fascists.",
  "* Of course, everybody says theyre for peace. Hitler was for peace. Everybody is for peace. The question is: \"What kind of peace?\"",
  "* If the Nuremberg laws were applied, then every post-war American president would have been hanged.",
  "* The sign of a truly totalitarian culture is that important truths simply lack cognitive meaning and are interpretable only at the level of \"Fuck You\", so they can then elicit a perfectly predictable torrent of abuse in response. Weve long ago reached that level.",
  "* Strikingly, no concern was voiced over the glaringly obvious fact that no official reason was ever offered for going to war  no reason, that is, that could not be instantly refuted by a literate teenager.",
  "* The crisis began with the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait a year ago. There was some fighting, leaving hundreds killed according to Human Rights groups. That hardly qualifies as war. Rather, in terms of crimes against peace and against humanity, it falls roughly into the category of the Turkish invasion of northern Cyprus, Israels invasion of Lebanon in 1978, and the U.S. invasion of Panama. In these terms it falls well short of Israels 1982 invasion of Lebanon, and cannot remotely be compared with the near-genocidal Indonesian invasion and annexation of East Timor, to mention only two cases of aggression that are still in progress, with continuing atrocities and with the crucial support of those who most passionately professed their outrage over Iraqs aggression. During the subsequent months, Iraq was responsible for terrible crimes in Kuwait, with several thousand killed and many tortured. But that is not war; rather, state terrorism, of the kind familiar among U.S. clients. The second phase of the conflict began with the U.S.-U.K. attack of January 15 (with marginal participation of others). This was [http://www.hrw.org/reports/1991/gulfwar/index.htm slaughter], not war.",
  "* The point of public relations slogans like \"Support Our Troops\" is that they dont mean anything ... thats the whole point of good propaganda. You want to create a slogan that nobody is going to be against and I suppose everybody will be for, because nobody knows what it means, because it doesnt mean anything. But its crucial value is that it diverts your attention from a question that does mean something, do you support our policy? And thats the one youre not allowed to talk about.",
  "* Harold Laswell ... explained a couple of years after this in the early 1930s that we should not succumb to what he called democratic dogmatisms about men being the best judges of their own interests.... In whats nowadays called a totalitarian state, military state or something, its easy. You just hold a bludgeon over their heads, but as societies become more free and democratic you lose that capacity and therefore you have to turn to the techniques of propaganda. The logic is clear\u2014propaganda is to a democracy what the bludgeon is to a totalitarian state....",
  "* If you quietly accept and go along no matter what your feelings are, ultimately you internalize what youre saying, because its too hard to believe one thing and say another. I can see it very strikingly in my own background. Go to any elite university and you are usually speaking to very disciplined people, people who have been selected for obedience. And that makes sense. If youve resisted the temptation to tell the teacher, \"Youre an asshole,\" which maybe he or she is, and if you dont say, \"Thats idiotic,\" when you get a stupid assignment, you will gradually pass through the required filters. You will end up at a good college and eventually with a good job.",
  "* Most problems of teaching are not problems of growth but helping cultivate growth. As far as I know, and this is only from personal experience in teaching, I think about ninety percent of the problem in teaching, or maybe ninety-eight percent, is just to help the students get interested. Or what it usually amounts to is to not prevent them from being interested. Typically they come in interested, and the process of education is a way of driving that defect out of their minds. But if children[s] [...] normal interest is maintained or even aroused, they can do all kinds of things in ways we dont understand.",
  "* The intellectual tradition is one of servility to power, and if I didnt betray it Id be ashamed of myself.",
  "* If we dont believe in free expression for people we despise, we dont believe in it at all.",
  "* One might ask why tobacco is legal and marijuana not. A possible answer is suggested by the nature of the crop. Marijuana can be grown almost anywhere, with little difficulty. It might not be easily marketable by major corporations. Tobacco is quite another story.",
  "* Control of thought is more important for governments that are free and popular than for despotic and military states. The logic is straightforward: a despotic state can control its domestic enemies by force, but as the state loses this weapon, other devices are required to prevent the ignorant masses from interfering with public affairs, which are none of their business.",
  "* I dont know if its a hundred years, but it seems to me if history continues\u2014thats not at all obvious, that it will\u2014but if society continues to develop without catastrophe on something like the course that you can sort of see over time, I wouldnt be in the least surprised if it moves toward vegetarianism and protection of animal rights. In fact, what weve seen over the years\u2014and its hard to be optimistic in the twentieth century, which is one of the worst centuries in human history in terms of atrocities and terror and so on\u2014but still, over the years, including the twentieth century, there is a widening of the moral realm, bringing in broader and broader domains of individuals who are regarded as moral agents.",
  "* Naturally, any conqueror is going to play one group against another. For example, I think about 90% of the forces that the British used to control India were Indians. [...] It was true when the American forces conquered the Philippines, killing a couple hundred thousand people. They were being helped by Philippine tribes, exploiting conflicts among local groups. There were plenty who were going to side with the conquerors. But forget the Third World, just take a look at the Nazi conquest of nice, civilized Western Europe, places like Belgium and Holland and France. Who was rounding up the Jews? Local people, often. In France they were rounding them up faster than the Nazis could handle them. The Nazis also used Jews to control Jews. If the United States was conquered by the Russians, George Bush, Elliott Abrams and the rest of them would probably be working for the invaders, sending people off to concentration camps. Theyre the right personality types.",
  "* The Tet Offensive in January of 1968 [...] made the war unpopular. American corporate elites decided at that point that it just wasnt worth it, it was too costly, lets pull out. So at that time everybody became an opponent of the war because the orders from on high were that you were supposed to be opposed to it. And after that every single memoirist radically changed their story about what had happened. They all concocted this story that their hero, Johnson changed it. If you look at the earlier memoirs, not a hint, I mean literally.",
  "* Reactions to our adversity are not entirely uniform. At the dovish extreme, we find Senator John Kerry, who warns that we should never again fight a war \"without committing enough resources to win\"; no other flaw is mentioned. And there is President Carter, the noted moral teacher and human rights apostle, who assured us that we owe Vietnam no debt and have no responsibility to render it any assistance because \"the destruction was mutual,\" an observation so uncontroversial as to pass with no reaction. [...] Properly statesmanlike, President Bush announces that \"It was a bitter conflict, but Hanoi knows today that we seek only answers without the threat of retribution for the past.\" Their crimes against us can never be forgotten, but \"we can begin writing the last chapter of the Vietnam war\" if they dedicate themselves with sufficient zeal to the MIAs. We might even \"begin helping the Vietnamese find and identify their own combatants missing in action,\" [New York Times Asia correspondent] Crossette reports. The adjacent front-page story reports Japans failure, once again, to \"unambiguously\" accept the blame \"for its wartime aggression.\"",
  "* Of course its extremely easy to say, the heck with it. Im just going to adapt myself to the structures of power and authority and do the best I can within them. Sure, you can do that. But thats not acting like a decent person. You can walk down the street and be hungry. You see a kid eating an ice cream cone and you notice theres no cop around and you can take the ice cream cone from him because youre bigger and walk away. You can do that. Probably there are people who do. We call them \"pathological.\" On the other hand, if they do it within existing social structures we call them \"normal.\" But its just as pathological. Its just the pathology of the general society.",
  "* A good way of finding out who won a war, who lost a war, and what the war was about, is to ask whos cheering and whos depressed after its over - this can give you interesting answers. So, for example, if you ask that question about the Second World War, you find out that the winners were the Nazis, the German industrialists who had supported Hitler, the Italian Fascists and the war criminals that were sent off to South America - they were all cheering at the end of the war. The losers of the war were the anti-fascist resistance, who were crushed all over the world. Either they were massacred like in Greece or South Korea, or just crushed like in Italy and France. Thats the winners and losers. That tells you partly what the war was about. Now lets take the Cold War: Whos cheering and whos depressed? Lets take the East first. The people who are cheering are the former Communist Party bureaucracy who are now the capitalist entrepreneurs, rich beyond their wildest dreams, linked to Western capital, as in the traditional Third World model, and the new Mafia. They won the Cold War. The people of East Europe obviously lost the Cold War; they did succeed in overthrowing Soviet tyranny, which is a gain, but beyond that theyve lost - theyre in miserable shape and declining further. If you move to the West, who won and who lost? Well, the investors in General Motors certainly won. They now have this new Third World open again to exploitation - and they can use it against their own working classes. On the other hand, the workers in GM certainly didnt win, they lost. They lost the Cold War, because now theres another way to exploit them and oppress them and theyre suffering from it.",
  "* Independent nationalism is unacceptable to the West, no matter where it is, and it has to be driven back into subordination. In the case of Grenada, you can do it in a weekend; in the case of the Soviet Union it may take 70 years. But these are matters of scale, the logic is essentially the same.",
  "* As for drugs, my impression is that their effect was almost completely negative, simply removing people from meaningful struggle and engagement. Just the other day I was sitting in a radio studio waiting for a satellite arrangement abroad to be set up. The engineers were putting together interviews with free speech movement\" and said that he didnt understand it. He said something like: \"I have free speech, I can do what I want, so it has nothing to do with me. Period.\" If the capitalist PR machine [term used in the question] wanted to invent someone for their purposes, they couldnt have made a better choice.",
  "* In the United States, the political system is a very marginal affair. There are two parties, so-called, but theyre really factions of the same party, the Business Party. Both represent some range of business interests. In fact, they can change their positions 180 degrees, and nobody even notices. In the 1984 election, for example, there was actually an issue, which often there isnt. The issue was Keynesian growth versus fiscal conservatism. The Republicans were the party of Keynesian growth: big spending, deficits, and so on. The Democrats were the party of fiscal conservatism: watch the money supply, worry about the deficits, et cetera. Now, I didnt see a single comment pointing out that the two parties had completely reversed their traditional positions. Traditionally, the Democrats are the party of Keynesian growth, and the Republicans the party of fiscal conservatism. So doesnt it strike you that something must have happened? Well, actually, it makes sense. Both parties are essentially the same party. The only question is how coalitions of investors have shifted around on tactical issues now and then. As they do, the parties shift to opposite positions, within a narrow spectrum.",
  "* The political policies that are called conservative these days would appall any genuine conservative, if there were one around to be appalled. For example, the central policy of the Reagan Administration - which was supposed to be conservative - was to build up a powerful state. The state grew in power more under Reagan than in any peacetime period, even if you just measure it by state expenditures. The state intervention in the economy vastly increased. Thats what the Pentagon system is, in fact; its the creation of a state-guaranteed market and subsidy system for high-technology production. There was a commitment under the Reagan Administration to protect this more powerful state from the public, which is regarded as the domestic enemy. Take the resort to clandestine operations in foreign policy: that means the creation of a powerful central state immune from public inspection. Or take the increased efforts at censorship and other forms of control. All of these are called \"conservatism,\" but theyre the very opposite of conservatism. Whatever the term means, it involves a concern for Enlightenment values of individual rights and freedoms against powerful external authorities such as the state, [or] a dominant Church, and so on. That kind of conservatism no one even remembers anymore.",
  "* Boards of Directors have to make certain kinds of decisions, and those decisions are pretty narrowly constrained. They have to be committed to increasing profit share and market share. That means theyre going to be forced to try to limit wages, to limit quality, to use advertising in a way that sells goods even if the product is lousy. Who tells them to do this? Nobody. But if they stopped doing it, theyd be out of business. Similarly, if an editorial writer for the New York Times were to start, say, telling the truth about the Panama invasion -- which is almost inconceivable, because to become an editorial writer youd already have gone through a filtering process which would weed out the non-conformists -- well, the first thing that would happen is youd start getting a lot of angry phone calls from investors, owners, and other sectors of power. That would probably suffice. If it didnt, youd simply see the stock start falling. And if they continued with it systematically, the New York Times would be replaced by some other organ. After all, what is the New York Times? Its just a corporation. If investors and advertisers dont want to support it, and the government doesnt want to give it the special privileges and advantages that make it a \"newspaper of record,\" its out of business.",
  "* There is a noticeable general difference between the sciences and mathematics on the one hand, and the humanities and social sciences on the other. Its a first approximation, but one that is real. In the former, the factors of integrity tend to dominate more over the factors of ideology. Its not that French Revolution as long as you like, and nothing will happen. Propose a false theory in chemistry, and itll be refuted tomorrow.",
  "* I never criticized United States planners for mistakes in Vietnam. True, they made some mistakes, but my criticism was always aimed at what they aimed to do and largely achieved. The Russians doubtless made mistakes in Afghanistan, but my condemnation of their aggression and atrocities never mentioned those mistakes, which are irrelevant to the matter -- though not for the commissars. Within our ideological system, it is impossible to perceive that anyone might criticize anything but \"mistakes\" (I suspect that totalitarian Russia was more open in that regard).",
  "* Nothing should be done to impede people from teaching and doing their research even if at that very moment it was being used to massacre and destroy. [...] the radical students and I wanted to keep the labs on campus, on the principle that what is going to be going on anyway ought to be open and above board, so that people would know what is happening and act accordingly.",
  "*Perhaps this is an obvious point, but the democratic postulate is that the media are independent and committed to discovering and reporting the truth, and that they do not merely reflect the world as powerful groups wish it to be perceived. Leaders of the media claim that their new choices rest on unbiased professional and objective criteria, and they have support for this contention in the intellectual community. If, however, the powerful are able to fix the premises of discourse, to decide what the general populace is allowed to see, hear, and think about, and to \u201cmanage\u201d public opinion by regular propaganda campaigns, the standard view of how the system works is at serious odds with reality.",
  "* Modern industrial civilization has developed within a certain system of convenient myths. The driving force of modern industrial civilization has been individual material gain, which is accepted as legitimate, even praiseworthy, on the grounds that private vices yield public benefits, in the classic formulation. Now, it has long been understood, very well, that a society that is based on this principle will destroy itself in time. It can only persist, with whatever suffering and injustice that it entails, as long as it is possible to pretend that the destructive forces that humans create are limited, that the world is an infinite resource, and that the world is an infinite garbage can. At this stage of history either one of two things is possible. Either the general population will take control of its own destiny and will concern itself with community interests, guided by values of solidarity, sympathy and concern for others, or alternatively there will be no destiny for anyone to control. As long as some specialized class is in a position of authority, it is going to set policy in the special interests that it serves. But the conditions of survival, let alone justice, require rational social planning in the interests of the community as a whole, and by now that means the global community. The question is whether privileged elite should dominate mass communication and should use this power as they tell us they must\u2014namely to impose necessary illusions, to manipulate and deceive the stupid majority and remove them from the public arena. The question in brief, is whether democracy and freedom are values to be preserved or threats to be avoided. In this possibly terminal phase of human existence, democracy and freedom are more than values to be treasured; they may well be essential to survival.",
  "* indoctrination is inconsistent with democracy. Rather, as this whole line of thinkers observes, it is the essence of democracy. The point is that in a military state or a feudal state or what we would now call a totalitarian state, it doesnt much matter because youve got a bludgeon over their heads and you can control what they do. But when the state loses the bludgeon, when you cant control people by force, and when the voice of the people can be heard, you have this problem\u2014it may make people so curious and so arrogant that they dont have the humility to submit to a civil rule [Clement Walker, 1661], and therefore you have to control what people think. And the standard way to do this is to resort to what in more honest days used to be called propaganda, manufacture of consent, creation of necessary illusion. Various ways of either marginalizing the public or reducing them to apathy in some fashion.",
  "* States are violent institutions. The government of any country, including ours, represents some sort of domestic power structure, and its usually violent. States are violent to the extent that theyre powerful, thats roughly accurate.",
  "* If you believe in freedom of speech, you believe in freedom of speech for views you dont like. Goebbels was in favor of freedom of speech for views he liked. So was Stalin. If youre in favor of freedom of speech, that means youre in favor of freedom of speech precisely for views you despise.",
  "* Were not analyzing the media on Mars or in the eighteenth century or something like that. Were dealing with real human beings who are suffering and dying and being tortured and starving because of policies that we are involved in, we as citizens of democratic societies are directly involved in and are responsible for, and what the media are doing is ensuring that we do not act on our responsibilities, and that the interests of power are served, not the needs of the suffering people, and not even the needs of the American people who would be horrified if they realized the blood thats dripping from their hands because of the way they are allowing themselves to be deluded and manipulated by the system.",
  "* Going back years, I am absolutely certain that I have taken far more extreme positions on people who deny the Holocaust than you have...Even to enter into the arena of debate on whether the Nazis carried out such atrocities is already to lose ones humanity.",
  "* A study of the inter-American system published by the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London concluded that, while the US pays lip service to democracy, the real commitment is to \"private, capitalist enterprise.\" When the rights of investors are threatened, democracy has to go; if these rights are safeguarded, killers and torturers will do just fine.",
  "*Sectors of the doctrinal system serve to divert the unwashed masses and reinforce the basic social values: passivity, submissiveness to authority, the overriding virtue of greed and personal gain, lack of concern for others, fear of real or imagined enemies, etc. The goal is to keep the bewildered herd bewildered. Its unnecessary for them to trouble themselves with whats happening in the world. In fact, its undesirable -- if they see too much of reality they may set themselves to change it.",
  "* In the United States youre not allowed to talk about class differences. In fact, only two groups are allowed to be class-conscious in the United States. One of them is the business community, which is rabidly class-conscious. When you read their literature, its all full of the danger of the masses and their rising power and how we have to defeat them. Its kind of vulgar, inverted Marxism. The other group is the high planning sectors of the government. They talk the same way  how we have to worry about the rising aspirations of the common man and the impoverished masses who are seeking to improve standards and harming the business climate. So they can be class-conscious. They have a job to do. But its extremely important to make other people, the rest of the population, believe that there is no such thing as class. Were all just equal, were all Americans, we live in harmony, we all work together, everything is great. ",
  "* The idea is to create a picture among the population that were all one happy family. Were America, we have a national interest, were working together. There are us nice workers, the firms in which we work and the government who works for us. We pick them  theyre our servants. And thats all there is in the world  no other conflicts, no other categories of people, no further structure to the system beyond that. Certainly nothing like class. Unless you happen to be in the ruling class, in which case youre very well aware of it. ",
  "* Spectator sports make people more passive, because youre not doing themyoure watching somebody doing them.",
  "** \"Sports\" in How the World Works, p. 169",
  "* If you look at the American armys counterinsurgency literature (a lot of which is now declassified), it begins with an analysis of the German experience in Europe, written with the cooperation of Nazi officers. Everything is described from the point of view of the Nazis-which techniques for controlling resistance worked, which ones didnt. With barely a change, that was transmuted into American counterinsurgency literature.",
  "* When British and then American troops moved into southern Italy, they simply reinstated the fascist orderthe industrialists. But the big problem came when the troops got to the north, which the Italian resistance had already liberated. The place was functioningindustry was running. We had to dismantle all of that and restore the old order.",
  "* Next we worked on destroying the democratic process. The left was obviously going to win the elections; it had a lot of prestige from the resistance, and the traditional conservative order had been discredited. The US wouldnt tolerate that.",
  "* Ricardos \"science\" was founded on the principle that capital is more or less immobile and labor highly mobile. We are enjoined today to worship the consequences of Ricardos science, despite the fact that the assumptions on which they are based have been reversed: capital is highly mobile, and labor virtually immobile -- libertarian conservatives lead the way in rejecting free trade, in keeping with their contempt for markets (except for the weak).",
  "* [The \"liberal media\"] love to be denounced from the right, and the right loves to denounce them, because that makes them look like courageous defenders of freedom and independence while, in fact, they are imposing all of the presuppositions of the propaganda system.",
  "*I dont say youre self-censoring - Im sure you believe everything youre saying; but what Im saying is, if you believed something different, you wouldnt be sitting where youre sitting.",
  "* Reform is a word you always ought to watch out for. Like, when Mao started the Cultural Revolution it wasnt called a reform. Reform is a change that youre supposed to like. So as soon as you hear the word reform you can reach for your wallet and see whos lifting it. [...] Subsidy is another interesting word, kind of like reform. Its a subsidy if public funds are used for public purposes. Thats called a subsidy. Its not called a subsidy when it goes to private wealth. Thats reform or something.",
  "* \"Tough love\" is just the right phrase: love for the rich and privileged, tough for everyone else.",
  "* There are no conservatives in the United States. The United States does not have a conservative tradition. The people who call themselves conservatives, like the Heritage Foundation or Gingrich, are believers in -- are radical statists. They believe in a powerful state, but a welfare state for the rich.",
  "* The question of whether a computer is playing chess, or doing long division, or translating Chinese, is like the question of whether robots can murder or airplanes can fly -- or people; after all, the \"flight\" of the Olympic long jump champion is only an order of magnitude short of that of the chicken champion (so Im told). These are questions of decision, not fact; decision as to whether to adopt a certain metaphoric extension of common usage.",
  "* If Hitler had been a crook... Were very fortunate in the United States, weve never had a charismatic leader who werent a gangster. Every one of them was a thug, or a robber, or something. Which is fine, then they dont cause a lot of trouble. If you get one whos honest, like Hitler, then youre in trouble - they just want power.",
  "* A lot of sophistication has been developed about the utilization of machines for complex purposes, and it doesnt make sense not to use it if you can think of a good question to ask. Playing chess is about the dumbest question you can ask. But, if you want, maybe can make money that way, or something. In fact, whats going on with the chess is about as interesting as the fact that a front-end loader can lift more than an Olympics champion, weight lifter, or something. Probably so, but, you know, these are just not serious questions.",
  "* As the most powerful state, the U.S. makes its own laws, using force and conducting economic warfare at will. It also threatens sanctions against countries that do not abide by its conveniently flexible notions of \"free trade.\" In one important case, Washington has employed such threats with great effectiveness (and GATT approval) to force open Asian markets for U.S. tobacco exports and advertising, aimed primarily at the growing markets of women and children. The U.S. Agriculture Department has provided grants to tobacco firms to promote smoking overseas. Asian countries have attempted to conduct educational anti-smoking campaigns, but they are overwhelmed by the miracles of the market, reinforced by U.S. state power through the sanctions threat. Philip Morris, with an advertising and promotion budget of close to $9 billion in 1992, became Chinas largest advertiser. The effect of Reaganite sanction threats was to increase advertising and promotion of cigarette smoking (particularly U.S. brands) quite sharply in Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea, along with the use of these lethal substances. In South Korea, for example, the rate of growth in smoking more than tripled when markets for U.S. lethal drugs were opened in 1988. The Bush Administration extended the threats to Thailand, at exactly the same time that the \"war on drugs\" was declared; the media were kind enough to overlook the coincidence, even suppressing the outraged denunciations by the very conservative Surgeon-General. Oxford University epidemiologist Richard Peto estimates that among Chinese children under 20 today, 50 million will die of cigarette-related diseases, an achievement that ranks high even by 20th century standards.",
  "* The most effective way to restrict democracy is to transfer decision-making from the public arena to unaccountable institutions: kings and princes, priestly castes, military juntas, party dictatorships, or modern corporations.",
  "* No individual gets up and says, Im going to take this because I want it. Hed say, Im going to take it because it really belongs to me and it would be better for everyone if I had it. Its true of children fighting over toys. And its true of governments going to war. Nobody is ever involved in an aggressive war; its always a defensive war -- on both sides.",
  "* The U.S. has always insisted on its right to use force, whatever international law requires, and whatever international institutions decide.... The U.S., of course, is not alone in these practices. Other states commonly act in much the same way, if not constrained by external or internal forces.",
  "* If you look into the history of what is called the CIA, which means the US White House, its secret wars, clandestine warfare, the trail of drug production just follows. It started in France after the Second World War when the United States was essentially trying to reinstitute the traditional social order, to rehabilitate Fascist collaborators, wipe out the Resistance and destroy the unions and so on. The first thing they did was reconstitute the Mafia, as strikebreakers or for other such useful services. And the Mafia doesnt do it for fun, so there was a tradeoff: Essentially, they allowed them to reinstitute the heroin production system, which had been destroyed by the Fascists. The Fascists tended to run a pretty tight ship; they didnt want any competition, so they wiped out the Mafia. But the US reconstituted it, first in southern Italy, and then in southern France with the Corsican Mafia. Thats where the famous French Connection comes from. That was the main heroin center for many years. Then US terrorist activities shifted over to Southeast Asia. If you want to carry out terrorist activities, you need local people to do it for you, and you also need secret money to pay for it, clandestine hidden money. Well, if you need to hire thugs and murderers with secret money, there arent many options. One of them is the drug connection. The so-called Golden Triangle around Burma, Laos and Thailand became a big drug producing area with the help of the United States, as part of the secret wars against those populations.",
  "* The \"corporatization of America\" during the past century has been an attack on democracy\u2014and on markets, part of the shift from something resembling \"capitalism\" to the highly administered markets of the modern state/corporate era. A current variant is called \"minimizing the state,\" that is, transferring decision-making power from the public arena to somewhere else: \"to the people\" in the rhetoric of power; to private tyrannies, in the real world.",
  "* Because they dont teach the truth about the world, schools have to rely on beating students over the head with propaganda about democracy. If schools were, in reality, democratic, there would be no need to bombard students with platitudes about democracy. They would simply act and behave democratically, and we know this does not happen. The more there is a need to talk about the ideals of democracy, the less democratic the system usually is.",
  "*A good teacher knows that the best way to help students learn is to allow them to find the truth by themselves. Students dont learn by a mere transfer of knowledge, consumed through rote memorization and later regurgitated. True learning comes about through the discovery of truth, not through the imposition of an official truth.",
  "* For example, take Suhartos Indonesia, which is a brutal, murderous state. I think Canada was supporting it all the way through, because it was making money out of the situation. And we can go around the world. Canada strongly supported the US invasion of South Vietnam, the whole of Indochina. In fact Canada became the per capita largest war exporter, trying to make as much money as it could from the murder of people in Indochina. In fact, Id suggest that you look back at the comment by a well known and respected Canadian diplomat, I think his name was John Hughes, some years ago, who defined what he called the Canadian idea, namely \"we uphold our principles but we find a way around them\". Well, thats pretty accurate. And Canada is not unique in this respect, maybe a little more hypocritical.",
  "* Every year thousands of people, mostly children and poor farmers, are killed in the Plain of Jars in Northern Laos, the scene of the heaviest bombing of civilian targets in history it appears, and arguably the most cruel: Washingtons furious assault on a poor peasant society had little to do with its wars in the region. The worst period was from 1968, when Washington was compelled to undertake negotiations (under popular and business pressure), ending the regular bombardment of North Vietnam. Kissinger-Nixon then decided to shift the planes to bombardment of Laos and Cambodia. The deaths are from \"bombies,\" tiny anti-personnel weapons, far worse than land-mines: they are designed specifically to kill and maim, and have no effect on trucks, buildings, etc. The Plain was saturated with hundreds of millions of these criminal devices, which have a failure-to-explode rate of 20%-30% according to the manufacturer, Honeywell. The numbers suggest either remarkably poor quality control or a rational policy of murdering civilians by delayed action. These were only a fraction of the technology deployed, including advanced missiles to penetrate caves where families sought shelter. Current annual casualties from \"bombies\" are estimated from hundreds a year to \"an annual nationwide casualty rate of 20,000,\" more than half of them deaths, according to the veteran Asia reporter Barry Wain of the Wall Street Journal -- in its Asia edition. A conservative estimate, then, is that the crisis this year is approximately comparable to Kosovo, though deaths are far more highly concentrated among children -- over half, according to analyses reported by the Mennonite Central Committee, which has been working there since 1977 to alleviate the continuing atrocities. There have been efforts to publicize and deal with the humanitarian catastrophe. A British-based Mine Advisory Group ([http://www.mag.org.uk/ MAG]) is trying to remove the lethal objects, but the US is \"conspicuously missing from the handful of Western organizations that have followed MAG,\" the British press reports, though it has finally agreed to train some Laotian civilians. The British press also reports, with some anger, the allegation of MAG specialists that the US refuses to provide them with \"render harmless procedures\" that would make their work \"a lot quicker and a lot safer.\" These remain a state secret, as does the whole affair in the United States. The Bangkok press reports a very similar situation in Cambodia, particularly the Eastern region where US bombardment from early 1969 was most intense.",
  "* Let me just put the whole thing in a kind of mundane level. Like, suppose you walk out in the street, this evening, and you see a crime being committed, you know, somebody is robbing someone else. Well, you have three choices. One choice is to try to stop it, maybe you call 911 or something. Another choice is to do nothing. A third choice is to pick up an assault rifle and kill em both, and kill a bystander at the same time. Well, suppose you do that, and somebody says, \"Well, you know, why did you do that?\" And you say, \"Look, I couldnt stand by and do nothing.\" I mean, is that a response? If you can think of nothing that wouldnt do harm, then do nothing. And the same is true, magnified, in international affairs. Apart from the fact that there were things that could have been done.",
  "* The United States is not going in there to save the oppressed. If we wanted to save the oppressed we could have supported the nonviolent movement instead of selling them out at Dayton. Any kind of turbulence in the Balkans is a threat to the interests of rich, privileged, powerful people. Therefore, any turbulence in the Balkans is called a crisis. The same circumstances would not be a crisis were they to occur in Sierra Leone, or Central America, or even Turkey. But in Europe, the heartland of American economic interests, any threat in the Balkans has the possibility of spilling over.",
  "* If the principle is, \"Lets not get lethal substances out to the public\", the first one youd go after is tobacco. The next one youd go after is alcohol. Way down the list youd get to cocaine, and sort of invisibly low youd get to marijuana.",
  "* Very commonly substances are criminalized because theyre associated with whats called the dangerous classes, you know, poor people, or working people.... Actually, the peak of marijuana use was as I said, in the seventies, but that was rich kids, so you dont throw them in jail. And then it got seriously criminalized, you know, you really throw people in jail for it, when it was poor people.",
  "* The criticisms were so tepid they were embarrassing. Almost nobody, including me, dared to criticize the U.S. attack on South Vietnam. Thats like talking Hittite. Nobody even understood the words.",
  "* Mass education was designed to turn independent farmers into docile, passive tools of production. That was its primary purpose. And dont think people didnt know it. They knew it and they fought against it. There was a lot of resistance to mass education for exactly that reason. It was also understood by the elites. Emerson once said something about how were educating them to keep them from our throats. If you dont educate them, what we call \"education,\" theyre going to take control -- \"they\" being what Alexander Hamilton called the \"great beast,\" namely the people. The anti-democratic thrust of opinion in what are called democratic societies is really ferocious. And for good reason. Because the freer the society gets, the more dangerous the great beast becomes and the more you have to be careful to cage it somehow.",
  "* Enlightenment figure in the United States, along with wage labor, which was considered an abomination under classical liberal principles.",
  "* Cobb County Georgia gets more federal subsidies than any suburban county in the country, outside of the federal system itself.",
  "* By comparative standards, the country is undertaxed. And its also regressively taxed, the tax burden falls mostly on the poor. What we need is a progressive tax system, of, incidentally, the kind that Jefferson advocated. You know, traditional libertarians, like Jefferson, advocated sharply progressive taxes, because they wanted a system of relative equality, knowing that thats a prerequisite for democracy. Jefferson specifically advocated it. We dont have it anymore, its sort of there in legislation but its gone. What we need is different social policies. And social policies which ought to be funded by the people who are going to benefit from it, thats the general public. So wed be a lot better off if we were higher taxed, and it was used for proper purposes. And we know what those are. I mean, for example, for women taking care of children. You know, it makes sense to pay them for that work, theyre doing important work for the society. [applause] And they should be paid for it, but that requires tax payments. And the same is true about protection of the environment.",
  "* Yet to enter approved memory is the \"finale\" described in the official Air Force history, a 1000-plane raid on civilian targets organized by General \"Hap\" Arnold to celebrate the wars end, five days after Nagasaki. According to survivors, leaflets were dropped among the bombs announcing the surrender.",
  "* The doves are pleased that invasion of Afghanistan \"peculiarly demanded\" such an assessment in the Kremlin. Draper is outraged by the \"vitriolic and protracted campaign\" against McNamara by the New York Times. \"The case against McNamara largely hinges on the premise that he did not express his doubts\" about \"whether American troops should continue to die\" early on, but the Times did not either (though Draper did, he proudly reminds us). Could there be another question?",
  "* The responsibility of the writer as a moral agent is to try to bring the truth about matters of human significance to an audience that can do something about them.",
  "* Property rights are not like other rights, contrary to what Madison and a lot of modern political theory says. If I have the right to free speech, it doesnt interfere with your right to free speech. But if I have property, that interferes with your right to have that property, you dont have it, I have it. So the right to property is very different from the right to freedom of speech. This is often put very misleadingly about rights of property; property has no right. But if we just make sense out of this, maybe there is a right to property, one could debate that, but its very different from other rights.",
  "* The most extreme types, like Murray Rothbard, are at least honest. Theyd like to eliminate highway taxes because they force you to pay for a road you may never drive on. As an alternative, they suggest that if you and I want to get somewhere, we should build a road there and charge people tolls on it. Just try generalizing that. Such a society couldnt survive, and even if it could, it would be so full of terror and hate that any human being would prefer to live in hell.",
  "* The smart way to keep people passive and obedient is to strictly limit the spectrum of acceptable opinion, but allow very lively debate within that spectrum - even encourage the more critical and dissident views. That gives people the sense that theres free thinking going on, while all the time the presuppositions of the system are being reinforced by the limits put on the range of the debate.",
  "* I should say that when people talk about capitalism its a bit of a joke. Theres no such thing. No country, no business class, has ever been willing to subject itself to the free market, free market discipline. Free markets are for others. Like, the Third World is the Third World because they had free markets rammed down their throat. Meanwhile, the enlightened states, England, the United States, others, resorted to massive state intervention to protect private power, and still do. Thats right up to the present. I mean, the Reagan administration for example was the most protectionist in post-war American history. Virtually the entire dynamic economy in the United States is based crucially on state initiative and intervention: computers, the internet, telecommunication, automation, pharmaceutical, you just name it. Run through it, and you find massive ripoffs of the public, meaning, a system in which under one guise or another the public pays the costs and takes the risks, and profit is privatized. Thats very remote from a free market. Free market is like what India had to suffer for a couple hundred years, and most of the rest of the Third World.",
  "* ...the incompetence of intelligence agencies is legendary.... Just take Vietnam.... In the late 1940s, the United States was kind of unclear about which side to support.... In the case of Indochina, for whatever reason, they decided at one point to support France in its reconquest of Indochina. Well, at that point, essentially orders went to the U.S. intelligence communities, CIA and others, to demonstrate ... that Ho Chi Minh and the Viet Minh were agents of either the Russians or the Chinese.... They couldnt do it. They couldnt find anything.... The conclusion in the State Department was, \"OK, this proves that theyre agents of the international communist conspiracy. Ho Chi Minh is such a loyal slave of\"\u2014pick it, Mao or Stalin\u2014\"that he doesnt even need orders.\".",
  "* Israel invaded Lebanon in 1982 with the intention of destroying secular Palestinian nationalism.... OK, they did destroy the secular PLO and instead what they got was an Islamic fundamentalist movement that they couldnt control, that drove them out of most of Lebanon. What did they do next? They did exactly the same thing in the West Bank.",
  "* In Somalia, we know exactly what they had to gain because they told us. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Powell Doctrine. The United States has an unusual military doctrine, its one of the reasons why the U.S. is generally disqualified from peace keeping operations that involve civilians, again, this has to do with sovereignty. U.S. military doctrine is that U.S. soldiers are not permitted to come under any threat. Thats not true for other countries. So countries like, say, Canada, the Fiji Islands, Pakistan, Norway, their soldiers are coming under threat all the time. The peace keepers in southern Lebanon for example, are being attacked by Israeli soldiers all the time, and have suffered plenty of casualties, and they dont like it. But U.S. soldiers are not permitted to come under any threat, so when Somali teenagers started shaking fists at them, and more, they came back with massive fire power, and that led to a massacre. According to the U.S., I dont know the actual numbers, but according to U.S. government, about 7 to 10 thousand Somali civilians were killed before this was over. Theres a close analysis of all of this by Alex de Waal, whos one of the worlds leading specialists on African famine and relief, altogether academic specialist. His estimate is that the number of people saved by the intervention and the number killed by the intervention was approximately in the same ballpark. Thats Somalia. Thats whats given as a stellar example of the humanitarian intervention.",
  "* Actually, on humanitarian intervention in general, I guess my view is not unlike the view that was attributed to Gandhi, accurately or not, when he was supposedly asked what he thought about western civilization. He is supposed to have said that he thought it would be a good idea. Similarly, humanitarian intervention would be a good idea, in principle. [...] can we expect that with the existing power structure, distribution of power in the world, there will be humanitarian intervention? There is nothing new about the question, of course. The idea of humanitarian intervention goes back to the days of the Concert of Europe a century ago - in the 19th Century there was lots of talk about civilizing missions and interventions that would do good things. The US intervened in the Philippines to \"uplift and christianize\" the backward people, killing a couple of hundred thousand of them and destroying the place. The same thing happened in Haiti, the same thing happened with other countries. We cannot disregard the historical record and talk about an ideal world. It makes sense to work towards a better world, but it doesnt make any sense to have illusions about what the real world is.",
  "* Remember, every business firm, like even a mom and pop grocery store, is a market imperfection. A firm is defined in economic theory as a market imperfection introduced to deal with transaction costs. And the sort of theory is that the imperfections, the firms, are kinda like little islands in a free market sea. But the problem with that is that the sea doesnt remotely resemble a free market, and the islands are bigger than the sea; so that raises some questions about the picture. But these market imperfections, like a firm, or a transnational corporation, or a strategic alliance among them, this is a form of administering interchanges. And theres a real question about whether we want to accept that. Why, for example, should the international socioeconomic system, or for that matter our own society, be in the hands of unaccountable private tyrannies? Thats a decision, its not a law of nature.",
  "* The most important victory, in fact, was in Indonesia. In 1965 there was a military coup, which instantly carried out a Rwanda-style slaughter, and its not an exaggeration. Rwanda-style slaughter, which wiped out the only mass-based political organization, killed mostly landless peasants, and instituted a brutal and murderous regime. There was total euphoria in the United States. So happy, they couldnt contain it. When you read the press, it was just ecstatic. Its kind of suppressed now because it doesnt look pretty in retrospect, but it was understood. Years later, McGeorge Bundy, who was the national security advisor, recognized that, he said, and I think hes right, the U.S. should have stopped the war in Vietnam in 1965, because we basically won. By 1965 South Vietnam was largely destroyed, most of the rest was going to quickly be destroyed, and we had saved the major prize, Indonesia. The rot wasnt going to spread to Indonesia after this delightful Rwanda-style slaughter.",
  "* Stability means we run it. There are countries that are very stable. Cuba is stable, but thats not called stability.",
  "* The Oslo agreements did represent a shift in U.S.-Israeli policy. Both states had by then come to recognize that it is a mistake to use the Israel Defense Forces to run the territories. It is much wiser to resort to the traditional colonial pattern of relying on local clients to control the subject population, in the manner of the British in India, South Africa under apartheid, the U.S. in Central America, and other classic cases. That is the assigned role of the Palestinian Authority, which like its predecessors, has to follow a delicate path: it must maintain some credibility among the population, while serving as a second oppressor, both militarily and economically, in coordination with the primary power centers that retain ultimate control. The long-term goal of the Oslo process was described accurately by Shlomo Ben-Ami shortly before he joined the Barak government: it is to establish a condition of permanent neo-colonialist dependency. The mechanisms have been spelled out explicitly in the successive interim agreements; and more important, implemented on the ground.",
  "* Lets go back to our point of departure: the contested issues of freedom and rights, hence sovereignty, insofar as its to be valued. Do they inhere in persons of flesh and blood or ... in abstract constructions like corporations, or capital, or states? In the past century the idea that such entities have special rights, over and above persons, has been strongly advocated. The most prominent examples are {{w|Bolshevism}}, {{w|fascism}}, and private corporatism.... Two of these systems have collapsed. The third is alive and flourishing under the banner TINA\u2014There Is No Alternative to the emerging system of state corporate mercantilism disguised with various mantras like {{w|globalization}} and {{w|free trade}}.",
  "* The Ottoman Empire was an ugly affair, but they had the right idea. The rulers in Turkey were fortunately so corrupt that they left people alone pretty much -- were mostly interested in robbing them -- and they left them alone to run their own affairs, and their own regions and their own communities with a lot of local self determination.",
  "* Take the Kyoto Protocol. Destruction of the environment is not only rational; its exactly what youre taught to do in college. If you take an economics or a political science course, youre taught that humans are supposed to be rational wealth accumulators, each acting as an individual to maximize his own wealth in the market. The market is regarded as democratic because everybody has a vote. Of course, some have more votes than others because your votes depend on the number of dollars you have, but everybody participates and therefore its called democratic. Well, suppose that we believe what we are taught. It follows that if there are dollars to be made, you destroy the environment. The reason is elementary. The people who are going to be harmed by this are your grandchildren, and they dont have any votes in the market. Their interests are worth zero. Anybody that pays attention to their grandchildrens interests is being irrational, because what youre supposed to do is maximize your own interests, measured by wealth, right now. Nothing else matters. So destroying the environment and militarizing outer space are rational policies, but within a framework of institutional lunacy. If you accept the institutional lunacy, then the policies are rational.",
  "* The September 11 attacks were major atrocities. In terms of number of victims they do not reach the level of many others, for example, Clintons bombing of the Sudan with no credible pretext, destroying half its pharmaceutical supplies and probably killing tens of thousands of people (no one knows, because the US blocked an inquiry at the UN and no one cares to pursue it). Not to speak of much worse cases, which easily come to mind. But that this was a horrendous crime is not in doubt. The primary victims, as usual, were working people: janitors, secretaries, firemen, etc. It is likely to prove to be a crushing blow to Palestinians and other poor and oppressed people. It is also likely to lead to harsh security controls, with many possible ramifications for undermining civil liberties and internal freedom.",
  "* I think we can be reasonably confident that if the American population had the slightest idea of what is being done in their name, they would be utterly appalled.",
  "* Right after September 11, the U.S. Trade Representative, Robert Zoellick, said the first thing that had to be done to combat terrorism was to pass fast-track. Now that should really make Kremlin-style authority to sign economic agreements.",
  "* It is only in folk tales, childrens stories, and the journals of intellectual opinion that power is used wisely and well to destroy evil. The real world teaches very different lessons, and it takes willful and dedicated ignorance to fail to perceive them.",
  "* Nothing can justify crimes such as those of September 11, but we can think of the United States as an \"innocent victim\" only if we adopt the convenient path of ignoring the record of its actions and those of its allies, which are, after all, hardly a secret.",
  "* Wanton killing of innocent civilians is terrorism, not a \"war against terrorism.\"",
  "* The list of the states that have joined the coalition against terror is quite impressive. They have a characteristic in common. They are certainly among the leading terrorist states in the world. And they happen to be led by the world champion.",
  "* It was a historic event. Not unfortunately because of its scale. Unpleasant to think about, but in terms of the scale its not that unusual. I did say its the worst, probably the worst instant human toll of any crime. And that may be true. But there are terrorist crimes with effects a bit more drawn out that are more extreme, unfortunately. Nevertheless, its a historic event because there was a change. The change was the direction in which the guns were pointing. Thats new. Radically new.",
  "* What will happen we dont know, but plans are being made and programs implemented on the assumption that they may lead to the death of several million people in the next couple of weeks. Very casually, with no comment, no particular thought about it, thats just kind of normal, here, and in a good part of Europe.",
  "* We cannot say much about human affairs with any confidence, but sometimes it is possible. We can, for example, be fairly confident that either there will be a world without war, or there wont be a world\u2014at least, a world inhabited by creatures other than bacteria and beetles, with some scattering of others.",
  "* Moral equivalence is a term of propaganda that was invented to try to prevent us from looking at the acts for which we are responsible. ...There is no such notion. There are many different dimensions and criteria. For example, theres no moral equivalence between the bombing of the World Trade Center and the destruction of Nicaragua or of El Salvador, of Guatemala. The latter were far worse, by any criterion. So theres no moral equivalence.",
  "* Remember, the U.S. is a powerful state, its not like Libya. If Libya wants to carry out terrorist acts, they hire Carlos the Jackal or something. The United States hires terrorist states.",
  "* [Israels military occupation is] in gross violation of international law and has been from the outset. And that much, at least, is fully recognized, even by the United States, which has overwhelming and, as I said, unilateral responsibility for these crimes. So George Bush No. 1, when he was the U.N. ambassador, back in 1971, he officially reiterated Washingtons condemnation of Israels actions in the occupied territories. He happened to be referring specifically to occupied Jerusalem. In his words, actions in violation of the provisions of international law governing the obligations of an occupying power, namely Israel. He criticized Israels failure \"to acknowledge its obligations under the Fourth Geneva Convention as well as its actions which are contrary to the letter and spirit of this Convention.\" [...] However, by that time, late 1971, a divergence was developing, between official policy and practice. The fact of the matter is that by then, by late 1971, the United States was already providing the means to implement the violations that Ambassador Bush deplored. [...] on December 5th [2001], there had been an important international conference, called in Switzerland, on the 4th Geneva Convention. Switzerland is the state thats responsible for monitoring and controlling the implementation of them. The European Union all attended, even Britain, which is virtually a U.S. attack dog these days. They attended. A hundred and fourteen countries all together, the parties to the Geneva Convention. They had an official declaration, which condemned the settlements in the occupied territories as illegal, urged Israel to end its breaches of the Geneva Convention, some \"grave breaches,\" including willful killing, torture, unlawful deportation, unlawful depriving of the rights of fair and regular trial, extensive destruction and appropriation of property not justified by military necessity and carried out unlawfully and wantonly. Grave breaches of the Geneva Convention, thats a serious term, that means serious war crimes. The United States is one of the high contracting parties to the Geneva Convention, therefore it is obligated, by its domestic law and highest commitments, to prosecute the perpetrators of grave breaches of the conventions. That includes its own leaders. Until the United States prosecutes its own leaders, it is guilty of grave breaches of the Geneva Convention, that means war crimes. And its worth remembering the context. It is not any old convention. These are the conventions established to criminalize the practices of the Nazis, right after the Second World War. What was the U.S. reaction to the meeting in Geneva? The U.S. boycotted the meeting... and that has the usual consequence, it means the meeting is null and void, silence in the media.",
  "* Prophet just means intellectual. They were people giving geopolitical analysis, moral lessons, that sort of thing. We call them intellectuals today. There were the people we honor as prophets, there were the people we condemn as false prophets. But if you look at the biblical record, at the time, it was the other way around. The flatterers of the Court of King Ahab were the ones who were honored. The ones we call prophets were driven into the desert and imprisoned.",
  "* [Q: do you think the Palestinian suicide bombers are freedom fighters or terrorists?] Theyre terrorists - theyre both, actually. Theyre trying to fight for freedom, but doing it in a totally unacceptable immoral way. Of course theyre terrorists. And theres been Palestinian terrorism all the way through. I have always opposed it, I oppose it now. But its very small as compared with the US-backed Israeli terrorism. Quite typically, violence reflects the means of violence. Its not unusual. State terror is almost always much more extreme than retail terror, and this is no exception.",
  "* The Americans didnt even think about the outcome of the bombing, because the Sudanese were so far below contempt as to be not worth thinking about. Suppose I walk down the sidewalk in Cambridge and, without a second thought, step on an ant. That would mean that I regard the ant as beneath contempt, and thats morally worse than if I purposely killed that ant.",
  "* I choose to live in what I think is the greatest country in the world, which is committing horrendous terrorist acts and should stop.",
  "* September 11 shocked many Americans into an awareness that they had better pay much closer attention to what the US government does in the world and how it is perceived. Many issues have been opened for discussion that were not on the agenda before. Thats all to the good. It is also the merest sanity, if we hope to reduce the likelihood of future atrocities. It may be comforting to pretend that our enemies \"hate our freedoms,\" as President Bush stated, but it is hardly wise to ignore the real world, which conveys different lessons. The president is not the first to ask: \"Why do they hate us?\" In a staff discussion 44 years ago, President Eisenhower described \"the campaign of hatred against us [in the Arab world], not by the governments but by the people\". His National Security Council outlined the basic reasons: the US supports corrupt and oppressive governments and is \"opposing political or economic progress\" because of its interest in controlling the oil resources of the region. ...What they hate is official policies that deny them freedoms to which they aspire.",
  "* [Q: isnt there a certain calculus that someone who is sitting in the shoes of a Condoleezza Rice can make, that theyre responsible for the best outcome for American citizens, and theres an upside of going into Iraq which is we get one of the greatest material possessions in worlds history, and therere downsides which are: we upset the international community, and maybe theres more terrorism. Couldnt you envision a calculus where they say, sure, thats the reason, and its a good reason, lets do it. Whats the flaw in the calculus?] Oh, I think thats exactly their calculus. But then we ought to just be honest and say, \"Look, were a bunch of Nazis.\" So fine, lets just drop all the discussion, we save a lot of trees, we can throw out the newspapers and most of the scholarly literature, and just come out, state it straight, and tell the truth: well do whatever we want because we think were going to gain by it. And incidentally, its not American citizens wholl gain. They dont gain by this. Its narrow sectors of domestic power that the administration is serving with quite unusual dedication...",
  "* Before there were any suicide bombers, it was also reported by the same sources that current intifada. Im just relying now on IDF sources. What they say is, that in the first few days of the intifada, the Israeli army fired a million bullets. One of the high military officers said that means one bullet for every child. Within the first month of the intifada, they killed about 70 people. Using U.S. helicopters, and in fact Clinton shipped new helicopters to Israel as soon as they started using them against civilians. Thats just the first month. And it goes on, no suicide bombers. At the time, it was reported that Saddam Hussein was giving $10,000 to every family. Well, is that supporting terror? It seems to me, sending helicopters to Israel when theyre using them to attack apartment complexes, thats supporting terror.",
  "* Armies usually arent interested in wars. They like preparation for war. But they have an understandable reluctance to fight a war. So I think if you look at, at least the history that I know, its usually the civilian leadership who is pushing the military to do something. It was the case in the early days of the Vietnam War.",
  "* If you take a poll among U.S. intellectuals, support for bombing Afghanistan is just overwhelming, but how many of them think that you should bomb Washington because of the U.S. war against Nicaragua, lets say, or Cuba or Turkey, or anyone else? Now if anyone were to suggest this, theyd be considered insane, but why? I mean, if one is right, why is the other wrong? When you try to get someone to talk about this question, they just wont try. They cant comprehend what your question is, because you cant comprehend that we should apply to ourselves the standards that you apply to others. That is incomprehensible! There couldnt be a moral principle more elementary... Theres a famous definition in the Gospels of the hypocrite. The hypocrite is the person who refuses to apply to himself the standards that he applies to others. By that standard, the entire commentary and discussion of the so-called \"war on terror\" is pure hypocrisy, virtually without exception. Can anybody understand that? No, cant understand that. But thats not so unusual... I know it was true in Germany and France and everywhere else. Its just standard. Its ugly, but its standard.",
  "* We certainly shouldnt trust to deal with [Saddam Hussein] anyone who supported him through his worst crimes, thats insane.",
  "* Theres one white powder which is by far the most lethal known. Its called sugar. If you look at the history of imperialism, a lot of it has to do with that. A lot of the imperial conquest, say in the Caribbean, set up a kind of a network... The Caribbean back in the 18th century was a soft drug producer: sugar, rum, tobacco, chocolate. And in order to do it, they had to enslave Africans, and it was done largely to pacify working people in England who were being driven into awful circumstances by the early industrial revolution. Thats why so many wars took place around the Caribbean.",
  "* Take any country that has laws against hate crimes, inspiring hatred and genocide and so on. The first thing they would do is ban the Old Testament. Theres nothing like it in the literary canon that exalts genocide, to that extent. And its not a joke either. Like where I live, New England, the people who liberated it from the native scourge were religious fundamentalist lunatics, who came waving the holy book, declaring themselves to be the children of Israel who are killing the Amalekites, like God [http://www.bible.org/netbible/deu25.htm told] them.",
  "* [Q: when do you think is it right to intervene in the affairs of another nation?] I think there are conditions under which that would be possible. One basic condition is that nonviolent -- you mean violent intervention? -- that nonviolent means have been exhausted. Thats one condition. A second condition is that the people of the country in which youre intervening support the intervention. Under those conditions -- and you can think of others -- intervention would be justified. However, we dont ever apply those conditions.",
  "* Theres a good reason why nobody studies history. It just teaches you too much.",
  "* To gain control over this resource, and have probably military bases there, is a tremendous achievement for world control. You read counter-arguments to this, and theyre worth looking at. So its argued that it cant be true, because the costs of reconstruction are going to be greater than the profits that will be made. Well, maybe thats true, maybe it isnt, but its totally irrelevant. And the reason is because the costs of reconstruction are going to be paid by the taxpayer, by you, and the profits are going to go right into the pockets of the energy corporations. So yeah, it doesnt matter how they balance out, its just another taxpayer subsidy to the rich.",
  "* [Q: do you believe that a nation should suffer a detrimental cost in order to compensate for wrongs committed by the governors of that nations, or by segments of that nation in the past?] Suppose youre living under a dictatorship, and the dictators carry out some horrendous acts. So youre living in Stalinist Russia, lets say, and Stalin carries out horrible crimes. Are the people of Russia responsible for those crimes? Well, to only a very limited extent, because living under a brutal, harsh, terrorist regime, there isnt very much they can do about it. Theres something they can do, and to the extent that you can do something, youre responsible for what happens. Suppose youre living in a free, democratic society, with lots of privilege, enormous, incomparable freedoms, and the government carries out violent, brutal acts. Are you responsible for it? Yeah, a lot more responsible, because theres a lot that you can do about it. If you share responsibility in criminal acts, you are liable for the consequences.",
  "* In September [2002] the government announced the [http://www.whitehouse.gov/nsc/nss.html national security strategy]. That is not completely without precedent, but it is quite new as a formulation of state policy. What is stated is that we are tearing the entire system of the international law to shreds, the end of UN charter, and that we are going to carry out an aggressive war - which we will call \"preventive\" - and at any time we choose, and that we will rule the world by force. In addition, we will assure that there is never any challenge to our domination because we are so overwhelmingly powerful in military force that we will simply crush any potential challenge. That caused shudders around the world, including the foreign policy elite at home which was appalled by this. It is not that things like that havent been heard in the past. Of course they had, but it had never been formulated as an official national policy. I suspect you will have to go back to Hitler to find an analogy to that. Now, when you propose new norms in the international behavior and new policies you have to illustrate it, you have to get people to understand that you mean it. Also you have to have what a Harvard historian called an \"exemplary war\", a war of example, which shows that we really mean what we say. And we have to choose the right target. The target has to have several properties. First it has to be completely defenseless. No one would attack anybody who might be able to defend themselves, that would be not prudent. Iraq meets that perfectly... And secondly, it has to be important. So there will be no point invading Burundi, for example. It has to be a country worthwhile controlling, owning, and Iraq has that property too.",
  "* Somebodys paying the corporations that destroyed Iraq and the corporations that are rebuilding it. Theyre getting paid by the American taxpayer in both cases. So we pay them to destroy the country, and then we pay them to rebuild it.",
  "* The US and Israel have demanded further that Palestinians not only recognize Israels rights as a state in the international system, but that they also recognize Israels abstract \"right to exist,\" a concept that has no place in international law or diplomacy, and a right claimed by no one. In effect, the US and Israel are demanding that Palestinians not only recognize Israel in the normal fashion of interstate relations, but also formally accept the legitimacy of their expulsion from their own land. They cannot be expected to accept that, just as Mexico does not grant the US the \"right to exist\" on half of Mexicos territory, gained by conquest.",
  "* After September 11th I had tons of interviews everywhere, except the United States of course, and often it was national radio and TV. A couple of times it turned out to be Irish television and BBC back to back, and the difference in reaction was startling. If I said this much on Irish TV, OK, discussion over, everyone understands what Im talking about. You try to say it on BBC, you have to go on for like about an hour to explain to them what you mean. The Irish sea is a chasm, and it just depends whos been holding the whip for 800 years and whos been under it for 800 years.",
  "* Let us turn now to the most elementary principle of just war theory, universality. Those who cannot accept this principle should have the decency to keep silent about matters of right and wrong, or just war. If we can rise to this level, some obvious questions arise: for example, have Cuba and Nicaragua been entitled to set off bombs in Washington, New York, and Miami in self-defense against ongoing terrorist attack? Particularly so when the perpetrators are well known and act with complete impunity, sometimes in brazen defiance of the highest international authorities, so that the cases are far clearer than Afghanistan? If not, why not?",
  "*Those who want to face their responsibilities with a genuine commitment to democracy and freedom - even to decent survival - should recognize the barriers that stand in the way. In violent states these are not concealed. In more democratic societies barriers are more subtle. While methods differ sharply from more brutal to more free societies, the goals are in many ways similar: to ensure that the \"great beast,\" as Alexander Hamilton called the people, does not stray from its proper confines. ",
  "*The final years of the millennium witnessed a display of exuberant self-adulation that may even have surpassed its no-too-glorious predecessors, with awed acclaim for an \"idealistic new world bent on ending inhumanity,\" dedicated to \"principles and values\" for the first time in history. An era of enlightenment and benevolence was upon us, in which the civilized nations, led by the United States, then \"at the height of its glory, \" acted out of \"altruism\" and \"moral fervor\" in pursuit of exalted ideals.",
  "*There is a new and highly regarded literary genre inquiring into the cultural defects that keep us from responding properly to the crimes of others. An  interesting question no doubt, though by any reasonably standard it ranks well below a different one: Why do we persist in or crimes, either directly or through crucial support for murderous clients? It is constructive to ask how often, or how accurately, one finds reference to Turkey, Colombia, East Timor, and many contemporary literature on the flaws in our character. There is much self-congratulation about the new \"ruling ideology\" in the moral universe of the enlightened states, grounded in the principal that \"all states have a responsibility, to protect their citizens if their leaders are unable or unwilling to do so, they render their countries liable to military intervention = authorized by the Security Council or, failing that (as in the case of Kosovo), by individual countries in conscience-shocking situations\" Atrocities comparable to or much worse than anything charged to Milosevic in Kosovo before the NATO bombing were not \"conscience-shocking\" when responsibility traced back home, as it often did - and even when the crimes took place within, not just near, the borders of NATO.",
  "* The whole question of recognizing the right of a state to exist was invented solely for Israel. People, on the other hand, have a right to exist. So the people who live on the land - Israelis and Palestinians - have a right to live in security and peace.",
  "* Even if [9/11 conspiracy theories] were true, which is extremely unlikely, who cares? It doesnt have any significance. Its a little bit like the huge energy thats put out on trying to figure out who killed John F. Kennedy. Who knows? And who cares? Plenty of people get killed all the time, why does it matter that one of them happened to be John F. Kennedy? If there was some reason to believe that there was a high level conspiracy, it might be interesting. But the evidence against that is just overwhelming. And after that, if it happened to be a jealous husband, or the mafia, or someone else, what difference does it make? Its just taking energy away from serious issues onto ones that dont matter. And I think the same is true here; its my personal opinion.",
  "* On May 27, the New York Times published one of the most incredible sentences Ive ever seen. They ran an article about the Nixon-Kissinger interchanges. Kissinger fought very hard through the courts to try to prevent it, but the courts permitted it. You read through it, and you see the following statement embedded in it. Nixon at one point informs Kissinger, his right-hand Eichmann, that he wanted bombing of Cambodia. And Kissinger loyally transmits the order to the Pentagon to carry out \"a massive bombing campaign in Cambodia. Anything that flies on anything that moves.\" That is the most explicit call for what we call genocide when other people do it that Ive ever seen in the historical record. Right at this moment there is a prosecution of Milo\u0161evi\u0107 going on in the international tribunal, and the prosecutors are kind of hampered because they cant find direct orders, or a direct connection even, linking Milo\u0161evi\u0107 to any atrocities on the ground. Suppose they found a statement like this. Suppose a document came out from Milo\u0161evi\u0107 saying, \"Reduce Kosovo to rubble. Anything that flies on anything that moves.\" They would be overjoyed. The trial would be over. He would be sent away for multiple life sentences - if it was a U.S. trial, immediately the electric chair.",
  "* I mean, whats the elections? You know, two guys, same background, wealth, political influence, went to the same elite university, joined the same secret society where youre trained to be a ruler - they both can run because theyre financed by the same corporate institutions. At the Democratic Convention, Lula. The president of Brazil is a guy with a peasant background, a union organizer, never went to school, hes the president of the second-biggest country in the hemisphere. Only in America? I mean, there they actually have elections where you can choose somebody from your own ranks. With different policies. Thats inconceivable in the United States.",
  "* Clinton, Kennedy, they all carried out mass murder, but they didnt think that that was what they were doing - nor does Bush. You know, they were defending justice and democracy from greater evils. And in fact I think youd find it hard to discover a mass murderer in history who didnt think that.",
  "* You can find things in the traditional religions which are very benign and decent and wonderful and so on, but I mean, the Bible is probably the most genocidal book in the literary canon. The God of the Bible - not only did He [http://www.bible.org/netbible/1sa15.htm order His chosen people] to carry out literal genocide - I mean, wipe out every Amalekite to the last man, woman, child, and, you know, donkey and so on, because hundreds of years ago they got in your way when you were trying to cross the desert - not only did He do things like that, but, after all, the God of the Bible was ready to destroy every living creature on earth because some humans irritated Him. Thats the story of Noah. I mean, thats beyond genocide - you dont know how to describe this creature. Somebody offended Him, and He was going to destroy every living being on earth? And then He was talked into allowing two of each species to stay alive - thats supposed to be gentle and wonderful.",
  "* The invasion of Iraq was simply a war crime. Straight-out war crime.",
  "* I think that the polls taken in Baghdad explain it very well, they seem to understand. The United States invaded Iraq to gain control of one of the major sources of the worlds energy, right in the heart of the worlds energy producing regions. To create, if they can, a dependent client state. To have permanent military bases. And to gain whats called \u201ccritical leverage\u201d - Im quoting Zbigniew Brzezinski - to gain critical leverage over rivals, the European and Asian economies. Its been understood since the Second World War, that if you have your hand on that spigot, the main source of the worlds energy, you have what early planners called \u201cveto power\u201d over others. Iraq is also the last part of the world where there are vast, untapped, easily accessible energy resources. And you can be sure that they want the profits from that to go primarily to U.S.-based multinationals and back to the U.S. Treasury, not to rivals. There are plenty of reasons for invading Iraq.",
  "* Its certainly true that the world is better off without Saddam Hussein, and also without the people who supported him through his worst atrocities, and are now telling us about them.",
  "* I was very much involved in the resistance movement in the 1960s. In fact, I was just barely -- the only reason I missed a long jail sentence is because the Tet Offensive came along and the trials were called off.",
  "* In my view, if theres going to be an army, I think it ought to be a citizens army. Now, here I do agree with some people, the top brass, they dont want a citizens army. They want a mercenary army, what we call a volunteer army. A mercenary army of the disadvantaged. And in fact, in the Vietnam War, the U.S. military realized, they had made a very bad mistake. I mean, for the first time I think ever in the history of European imperialism, including us, they had used a citizens army to fight a vicious, brutal, colonial war, and civilians just cannot do that kind of a thing. For that, you need the French Foreign Legion, the Gurkhas or something like that. Every predecessor has used mercenaries, often drawn from the country that theyre attacking, like England ran India with Indian mercenaries. You take them from one place and send them to kill people in the other place. Thats the standard way to run imperial wars. Theyre just too brutal and violent and murderous. Civilians are not going to be able to do it for very long. What happened was, the army started falling apart. One of the reasons that the army was withdrawn was because the top military wanted it out of there. They were afraid they were not going to have an army anymore. Soldiers were fragging officers. The whole thing was falling apart. They were on drugs. And thats why I think that theyre not going to have a draft. Thats why Im in favor of it. If theres going to be an army that will fight brutal, colonial wars... it ought to be a citizens army so that the attitudes of the society are reflected in the military.",
  "* [Q: can you conceive of any form in which you might support American military action taken, like the Presidents justification, in anticipation of an [https://web.archive.org/web/20040202114027/https://www.americanprogress.org/site/pp.asp?c=biJRJ8OVF&b=24970 imminent and dangerous] threat?] Why dont you generalize it, and say, can you conceive of any action which any state might take? Sure, you can imagine such things. Lets say youre in Iran right now. [audience laughter] Its under attack by the worlds superpower, with embargoes... Its surrounded by states either occupied by its superpower enemy, or having nuclear weapons. Little way down the road is the regional superpower, which has hundreds of nuclear weapons, and other WMDs, and is essentially an offshore US military base. And has a bigger and more advanced air force than any NATO power, outside the United States. And in the past year has been supplied by the global superpower with 100 advanced jet bombers, openly advertised as able to fly to Iran and back to bomb it. And also provided with what the Hebrew press calls special weaponry, nobody knows what that means, but if youre an Iranian intelligence analyst youre going to give a worst case analysis, of course. And has actually been publicly provided with smart bombs, and deep penetration weapons... They have a terrific justification for anticipatory self defense, better than any other case I can think of. But would I approve of their bombing Israel, or carrying out terrorist acts in Washington? No, even though they have a pretty strong case, better than anything I can think of here. Just as the Japanese had a much better case than any that I can think of here, but I dont approve of Pearl Harbor. So yeah, we can conceive of cases, and in fact some of them are right in front of our eyes, but none of us approve of them. None of us. So if we dont approve of them in real cases, why discuss hypothetical cases that dont exist? We can do that in some philosophy seminar, but in the real world therere real cases that ought to concern us.",
  "* The big debate in Washington is totally pointless. And the media, about whether Bush downgraded terror in order to invade Iraq. Theres nothing to debate. He invaded Iraq. That proves beyond doubt that he downgraded the threat of terror in favor of invading Iraq. They anticipated, and their own intelligence agencies told them, and everyone else did too, that invasion of Iraq was likely to increase the threat of terror. Its not a high priority, so they invaded Iraq because thats much higher priority.",
  "* ...evidence-based approach, the U.S. negotiators argued, is interference with free markets, because corporations must have the right to deceive. [...] The claim itself is kind of amusing, I mean, even if you believe the free market rhetoric for a moment. The main purpose of advertising is to undermine markets. If you go to graduate school and you take a course in economics, you learn that markets are systems in which informed consumers make rational choices. Thats whats so wonderful about it. But thats the last thing that the state corporate system wants. It is spending huge sums to prevent that, which brings us back to the viability of American democracy. For many years, elections here, election campaigns, have been run by the public relations industry and each time its with increasing sophistication. And quite naturally, the industry uses the same technique to sell candidates that it uses to sell toothpaste or lifestyle drugs. The point is to undermine markets by projecting imagery to delude and suppressing information, and similarly, to undermine democracy by the same method, projecting imagery to delude and suppressing information. The candidates are trained, carefully trained, to project a certain image. Intellectuals like to make fun of George Bushs use of phrases like \u201cmisunderestimate,\u201d and so on, but my strong suspicion is that hes trained to do that. Hes carefully trained to efface the fact that hes a spoiled frat boy from Yale, and to look like a Texas roughneck kind of ordinary guy just like you, just waiting to get back to the ranch that they created for him...",
  "* I think the basic question you ask is a good one: if we were to withdraw our own beating people over the heads with clubs, would it necessarily follow that somebody else would take that role, or are there other alternatives? Well yeah, there are other alternatives. For example, the alternatives that are favored by the overwhelming majority of the population of the United States. I mentioned one piece of it: let the UN function. The UN isnt perfect, a lot of things wrong with it, just like the Universal Declaration of Human Rights isnt perfect... But one step would be to pay some respect to the \"decent opinion of mankind\", to quote the famous author, and let international institutions function so as to reduce the likelihood that anybody will use force...",
  "* If there was anyone who actually fit the category of conservative, if there was such a category of people, they would have a very easy way to deal with the fact that 60% of the children under 2 [in Nicaragua] are suffering probable brain damage. Namely, by paying their debts. Simple conservative principle. But thats beyond unthinkable. Compassionate conservatives might want to go beyond that, if they existed. But theyre much more interested in making political capital over the fact that a woman in a vegetative state shouldnt be allowed to die in dignity.",
  "* The dominant propaganda systems have appropriated the term \"globalization\" to refer to the specific version of international economic integration that they favor, which privileges the rights of investors and lenders, those of people being incidental. In accord with this usage, those who favor a different form of international integration, which privileges the rights of human beings, become \"anti-globalist.\" This is simply vulgar propaganda, like the term \"anti-Soviet\" used by the most disgusting commissars to refer to dissidents. It is not only vulgar, but idiotic. Take the World Social Forum, called \"anti-globalization\" in the propaganda system -- which happens to include the media, the educated classes, etc., with rare exceptions. The WSF is a paradigm example of globalization. It is a gathering of huge numbers of people from all over the world, from just about every corner of life one can think of, apart from the extremely narrow, highly privileged elites who meet at the competing World Economic Forum, and are called \"pro-globalization\" by the propaganda system. An observer watching this farce from Mars would collapse in hysterical laughter at the antics of the educated classes.",
  "* Theres basically two principles that define the Bush Administration policies: stuff the pockets of your rich friends with dollars, and increase your control over the world. Almost everything follows from that. If you happen to blow up the world, well, you know, its somebody elses business. [http://www.cnn.com/2003/US/04/11/sprj.irq.pentagon/ Stuff happens], as Rumsfeld said.",
  "* The Grand Inquisitor explains that you have to create mysteries because otherwise the common people will be able to understand things. They have to be subordinated so you have to make things look mysterious and complicated. Thats the test of the intellectual. Its also good for them: then youre an important person, talking big words which nobody can understand. Sometimes it gets kind of comical, say in post-modern discourse. Especially around Paris, it has become a comic strip, I mean its all gibberish. But its very inflated, a lot of television cameras, a lot of posturing. They try to decode it and see what is the actual meaning behind it, things that you could explain to an eight-year old child. Theres nothing there. But these are the ways in which contemporary intellectuals, including those on the Left, create great careers for themselves, power for themselves, marginalize people, intimidate people and so on.",
  "* The crucial question for us is not whether they have a theocratic government. Id personally prefer not, but I can think of a lot of places where Id prefer not, like here. But, the question is whether the US will agree to let Iraq alone. That means to make it very clean and explicit, both in word and in action, that the US will withdraw, set a timetable for it, will not influence what goes on in Iraq, will not leave military bases, will let the country go off on its own. I think we also ought to pay massive reparations, but Ill stop short of that. Those are the crucial issues. Its not up to Rumsfeld what kind of government they have, its up to him to get out.",
  "* I think murdering Iraqi union leaders is criminal, for example. And a lot of what the insurgents have done is criminal. But, you know, you rank the priorities. Our priority is to stop major war crimes, like Fallujah for example. So yeah, what the resistance is doing, one can also criticize, harshly in fact. But in any kind of ranking, even if were on Mars, and certainly if were in the United States, what is vastly more important is our own crimes, which are much worse, and theyre ours.",
  "* Say, take Rachel Corrie, local young woman, she was extremely courageous. Shes a martyr for peace and justice. We happened to kill her too, even if we dont like to admit it. She was killed by U.S. sent equipment, which is Caterpillar... [Q: you draw that line right back to you and me sitting here?] Absolutely, were responsible for it. I mean, we didnt drive the bulldozer, but why is it there? Whats it doing? Who provides the military, economic, and diplomatic support for destroying the occupied territories?",
  "* The Bush Administration do have moral values. Their moral values are very explicit: shine the boots of the rich and the powerful, kick everybody else in the face, and let your grandchildren pay for it. That simple principle predicts almost everything thats happening.",
  "* After the invasion, there was sophisticated massive looting of the installations that were constructed in the 1980s - that includes high-precision equipment capable of making parts for nuclear and chemical weapons and missiles, and also toxins for biological weapons. Prior to the US-British invasion, these sites had been monitored by UN inspectors, but they were quickly kicked out of the country and have not been back since, while the occupation forces left the sites unguarded, and very sophisticated looting operations took place. Where this huge massive equipment has gone no one knows, and its uncomfortable to guess. The ironies are almost inexpressible. The US and Britain invaded to prevent the use of WMDs that did not exist, and they succeeded in providing the terrorists that they had mobilized with the means to develop WMDs that the US and Britain had provided to Saddam Hussein.",
  "* It should have been the easiest invasion in history, and the incompetence and arrogance of the Pentagon planners turned it into a total catastrophe. So yes, it hasnt worked out the way they wanted, but that has nothing to do with their plans. It would be like saying that Hitler didnt intend to conquer the world because he failed. They actually succeeded in creating an insurgency, which didnt exist, there was no basis for it and no outside support. In fact, the U.S. and Britain were compelled to allow elections. The elections in Iraq are a triumph of mass popular nonviolent resistance. Washington and London tried in every way they could to evade elections. You [http://www.juancole.com/2005/01/mixed-story-im-just-appalled-by.html go back] through 2003, there was one after another scheme proposed, to try to avoid elections. But they couldnt do it, there were mass demonstrations, partially led by Ayatollah Sistani. Finally they had to back down, and allow elections. Now theyre trying in every way to subvert them.",
  "* shifted it so the cross, which was the symbol of persecution of somebody working for the poor, was put on the shield of the Roman Empire. It became the symbol for violence and oppression, and thats pretty much what the church has been until the present.",
  "* We might add now that we do have an authoritative account of why the United States bombed Serbia in 1999. It comes from Strobe Talbott, now the director of the Brookings Institution, but in 1999 he was in charge of the State Department-Pentagon team that supervised the diplomacy in the affair. He wrote the introduction to a recent book by his Director of Communications, John Norris, which presents the position of the Clinton administration at the time of the bombing. Norris writes that \"it was Yugoslavias resistance to the broader trends of political and economic reform - not the plight of Kosovar Albanians - that best explains NATOs war\". In brief, they were resisting absorption into the U.S. dominated international socioeconomic system. Talbott adds that thanks to John Norris, anyone interested in the war in Kosovo \"will know \u2026 how events looked and felt at the time to those of us who were involved\" in the war, actually directing it. This authoritative explanation will come as no surprise at all to students of international affairs who are more interested in fact than rhetoric. And it will also come as no surprise, to those familiar with intellectual life, that the attack continues to be hailed as a grand achievement of humanitarian intervention, despite massive Western documentation to the contrary, and now an explicit denial at the highest level; which will change nothing, its not the way intellectual life works.",
  "* Personally Im very much opposed to Hamas policies in almost every respect. However, we should recognize that the policies of Hamas are more forthcoming and more conducive to a peaceful settlement than those of the United States or Israel. ... So, for example, Hamas has called for a long-term indefinite truce on the international border. There is a long-standing international consensus that goes back over thirty years that there should be a two-state political settlement on the international border, the pre-June 1967 border, with minor and mutual modifications. Thats the official phrase. Hamas is willing to accept that as a long-term truce. The United States and Israel are unwilling even to consider it... The demand on Hamas by the United States and the European Union and Israel [...] is first that they recognize the State of Israel. Actually, that they recognize its right to exist. Well, Israel and the U.S. certainly dont recognize the right of Palestine to exist, nor recognize any state of Palestine. In fact, they have been acting consistently to undermine any such possibility. The second condition is that Hamas must renounce violence. Israel and the United States certainly do not renounce violence. The third condition is that Hamas accept international agreements. The United States and Israel reject international agreements. So, though the policies of Hamas are, again in my view, unacceptable, they happen to be closer to the international consensus on a political peaceful settlement than those of their antagonists, and its a reflection of the power of the imperial states - the United States and Europe - that they are able to shift the framework, so that the problem appears to be Hamas policies, and not the more extreme policies of the United States and Israel... And we must remember that in their case its not just policies. Its not words - its actions.",
  "* Virtually all informed observers agree that a fair and equitable resolution of the plight of the Palestinians would considerably weaken the anger and hatred of Israel and the US in the Arab and Muslim worlds \u2013 and far beyond, as international polls reveal. Such an agreement is surely within reach, if the US and Israel depart from their long-standing rejectionism.",
  "* In order to make it look dramatic, they staged what was ridiculed by some Israeli commentators, correctly, they staged a national trauma... There was a huge media extravaganza, you know, pictures of a little Jewish boy try to hold back the soldiers destroying his house... And a lot of the settlers were allowed in, so there could be a pretense of violence, though there wasnt any... The withdrawal could have been done perfectly quietly. All that was necessary was for Israel to announce that on August 1st the army will withdraw. And immediately the settlers, who had been subsidized to go there in the first place, and to stay there, would get on to the trucks that are provided for them and move over to the West Bank where they can move into new subsidized settlements. But if you did that way, there wouldnt have been any national trauma, any justification for saying, \"never can we give up another 1 mm\u00b2 of land\". What made all of this even more ridiculous was that it was a repetition of what was described in Haaretz as \"Operation National Truama 1982\". After Israel finally agreed to Sadats 1971 offer, they had to evacuate northeastern Sinai, and there was another staged trauma, which again was ridiculed by Israel commentators. By a miracle, none of the settlers who were resisting needed a Band-Aid, while Palestinians were being killed all over the place.",
  "* As a number the specialists have pointed out, Bush is Osama bin Ladens best ally. ... [9/11] was bitterly condemned by the jihadi movement around the world. The leading figures, the radical clerics and others, were denouncing it. Well, there was an opportunity to make some moves towards the Muslim world, and in fact even the radical Islamic extremist elements of the Muslim world, and undermine support for Al-Qaeda. What Bush did was the opposite: resorted to violence, particularly in Iraq, which simply mobilized support for Osama bin Laden. Thats the way to deal with terrorism if you want to escalate it.",
  "* The Report calls for direct talks for Palestinians who \"accept Israels right to exist\" (an absurd demand) but does not restrict Israelis to those who accept the right of a Palestinian state to exist, which would, for example, exclude Israels Prime Minister Olmert, who received a rousing ovation in Congress when he [http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/05/24/AR2006052401420.html declared] that Israels historic right to the land from Jordan to the sea is beyond question.",
  "* Nobody doubts that the Russians committed aggression, that Saddam Hussein committed aggression. We attribute to them rational goals, maybe they wanted to control the energy of the Middle East or something. With regard to ourselves, its impossible... We just cannot adopt towards ourselves the same sane attitudes that we adopt easily, in fact reflexively, when others commit crimes... And if anyone says it, educated people, liberal intellectuals, are infuriated. Because it suggests that we could do something thats not noble. We can make mistakes, thats easy. You can criticize mistakes. You can criticize low-level crimes, like Abu-Ghraib, you can criticize that. You can criticize My Lai. But not the educated, civilized people, the kind of people we have dinner with, see at concerts, sitting in air-conditioned offices planning mass-murder. So thats beyond criticism. On the other hand, if its half-crazed G.I.s in the field, uneducated, dont know whos going to shoot at them next, you can blame them, you can say how awful they are. You can criticize Lynndie England, disadvantaged young woman, very different from us. But how about the guys who organized and planned it? No.",
  "* The threat of China is not military. The threat of China is they cant be intimidated... Europe you can intimidate. When the US tries to get people to stop investing in Iran, European companies pull out, China disregards it. You look at history and understand why \u2014 theyve been around for 4,000 years, they have contempt for the barbarians, they just dont give a damn. OK, you scream, well go ahead and take over a big piece of Saudi or Iranian oil. And thats the threat, you cant intimidate them \u2014 its driving people in Washington berserk. But, you know, of all the major powers, theyve been the least aggressive militarily.",
  "* China is the center of the Asian energy security grid, which includes the Central Asian states and Russia. India is also hovering around the edge, South Korea is involved, and Iran is an associate member of some kind. If the Middle East oil resources around the Gulf, which are the main ones in the world, if they link up to the Asian grid, the United States is really a second-rate power. A lot is at stake in not withdrawing from Iraq.",
  "* \"Witness in Palestine: A Jewish American Woman in the Occupied Territories\", August 2007, ISBN: 978-1-59451-307-7. Review by Chomsky: Even those who are familiar with the grim reality of the occupied territories will quickly be drawn into a world they had barely imagined by these vivid, searingly honest, intensely acute portrayals.",
  "* Mass non-violent protest is predicated on the humanity of the oppressor. Quite often it doesnt work. Sometimes it does, in unexpected ways. But judgements about that would have to be based on intimate knowledge of the society and its various strands.",
  "* \"Barack Obama and the Future of American Politics\", October 2008, ISBN: 978-1-59451-631-3. Review by Noam Chomsky: That the Obama phenomenon is of considerable significance in American social and political history should hardly be in doubt. But what exactly is it, and where might it lead? This lucid and penetrating book situates it firmly within the \u2018corporate-dominated and militaristic U.S. elections system and political culture,\u2019 explores in depth its substantive content and its limits, and draws valuable lessons about how these might be transcended in the unending struggle to achieve a more just and free society and a peaceful world. It is a very welcome contribution in complex and troubled times.",
  "* Were supposed to worship Adam Smith but youre not supposed to read him. Thats too dangerous. Hes a dangerous radical.",
  "* It is not that I am not a fan of American exceptionalism. That is like saying I am not a fan of the moon being made out of green cheese\u2014it does not exist. Powerful states have quite typically considered themselves to be exceptionally magnificent, and the United States is no exception to that. The basis for it [\"it\" meaning American exceptionalism] is not very substantial to put it politely. The problems with American foreign policy are rooted in its central nature, which we know about or can know about if we want to.",
  "* Dayans correct assumption was that the boss in Washington might object formally, but with a wink, and would continue to provide the decisive military, economic and diplomatic support for the criminal endeavors. The criminality has been underscored by repeated Security Council resolutions, more recently by the International Court of Justice, with the basic agreement of U.S. Justice Thomas Buergenthal in a separate declaration. Israels actions also violate U.N. Security Council resolutions concerning Jerusalem. But everything is fine as long as Washington winks.",
  "* There is a history of first three centuries of pacifist religion, which is why it was persecuted. It was the religion of the poor and the suffering, and poor and the suffering. ...",
  "* Sometimes when Im having a boring interview on the telephone, and Im trying to think about something else because the questions are too boring, and I start looking around the room where I work, you know, full of books piled up to the sky, all different kinds of topics. I start calculating how many centuries would I have to live reading twenty-four hours a day every day of the week to make a dent in what Id like to learn about things, its pretty depressing.[...] You know, we have little bits of understanding, glimpses, a little bit of light here and there, but theres a tremendous amount of darkness, which is a challenge. I think life would be pretty boring if we understood everything. Its better if we dont understand anything... and know that we dont, thats the important part.",
  "* \"I don\u2019t even know what an atheist is. When people ask me if I\u2019m an atheist, I have to ask them what they mean. What is it that I\u2019m supposed to not believe in? Until you can answer that question I can\u2019t tell you whether I\u2019m an atheist, and the question doesn\u2019t arise. [...] I don\u2019t see how one can be an agnostic when one doesn\u2019t know what it is that one is supposed to believe in, or reject.",
  "* Science talks about very simple things, and asks hard questions about them. As soon as things become too complex, science cant deal with them... But its a complicated matter: Science studies whats at the edge of understanding, and whats at the edge of understanding is usually fairly simple. And it rarely reaches human affairs. Human affairs are way too complicated. In fact even understanding insects is an extremely complicated problem in the sciences. So the actual sciences tell us virtually nothing about human affairs.",
  "* We might ask ourselves how we would be reacting if Iraqi commandos landed at George W. Bushs compound, assassinated him, and dumped his body in the Atlantic.",
  "* [ZEIT Campus: Political engagement like yours is rare among scholars. Are you sometimes furious at the \u201cservants of power\u201d as you say or at professor colleagues who only concentrate on their academic work?] Chomsky: I consider it immoral to be a supporter of a power system. However that does not mean that I am furious at anyone. Scholars per se do not have deeper political insights than other persons and are not morally superior to others. But they are obligated to help politicians seek and find the truth.",
  "* [ZEIT Campus: You often say you are an anarchist. What do you mean by that?] Chomsky: Students should challenge authorities and join a long anarchist tradition. [ZEIT Campus: \u201cChallenge authorities\u201d \u2013 a liberal or a moderate leftist could accept that invitation.] Chomsky: As soon as one identifies, challenges and overcomes illegitimate power, he or she is an anarchist. Most people are anarchists. What they call themselves doesnt matter to me. [ZEIT Campus: Who or what must challenge todays student generation?] Chomsky: This world is full of suffering, distress, violence and catastrophes. Students must decide: does something concern you or not? I say: look around, analyze the problems, ask yourself what you can do and set out on the work!",
  "* Where neoliberal rules have been observed since the \u201970s, economic performance has generally deteriorated and social democratic programs have substantially weakened. In the United States, which partially accepted these rules, real wages for the majority have largely stagnated for 30 years, instead of tracking productivity growth as before, while work hours have increased, now well beyond those of Europe. Benefits, which always lagged, have declined further. Social indicators\u2014general measures of the health of the society\u2014also tracked growth until the mid-\u201970s, when they began to decline, falling to the 1960 level by the end of the millennium.",
  "* The United States effectively has a business party, with two factions, Republicans and Democrats.",
  "* progressive legislation and social welfare have been won by popular struggles, not gifts from above.",
  "* Obamas now conducting the worlds greatest international terrorist campaign \u2013 the drones and special forces campaign. Its also a terror-generating campaign. The common understanding at the highest level [is] that these actions generate potential terrorists. Ill quote General Stanley McChrystal, Petraeus predecessor. He says that \"for every innocent person you kill\", and there are plenty of them, \"you create ten new enemies\".",
  "* I mentioned the Magna Carta. Thats the foundations of modern law. We will soon be commemorating the 800th anniversary. We wont be celebrating it \u2013 more likely interring what little is left of its bones after the flesh has been picked off by Bush and Obama and their colleagues in Europe.",
  "* In the past, the United States has sometimes, kind of sardonically, been described as a one-party state: the business party with two factions called Democrats and Republicans. Thats no longer true. Its still a one-party state, the business party. But it only has one faction. The faction is moderate Republicans, who are now called Democrats. There are virtually no moderate Republicans in whats called the Republican Party and virtually no liberal Democrats in whats called the Democratic Party. Its basically a party of what would be moderate Republicans and similarly, Richard Nixon would be way at the left of the political spectrum today. Eisenhower would be in outer space. There is still something called the Republican Party, but it long ago abandoned any pretence of being a normal parliamentary party. Its in lock-step service to the very rich and the corporate sector and has a catechism that everyone has to chant in unison, kind of like the old Communist Party. The distinguished conservative commentator, one of the most respected \u2013 Norman Ornstein \u2013 describes todays Republican Party as, in his words, \u201ca radical insurgency \u2013 ideologically extreme, scornful of facts and compromise, dismissive of its political opposition\u201d \u2013 a serious danger to the society, as he points out.",
  "* One of the interesting WikiLeaks exposures was from Anne W. Patterson, the American ambassador in Pakistan, who supports U.S. policy in Pakistan but pointed out that it carries with it the danger of \"destabilizing the Pakistani state,\" maybe even leading to a coup, which could bring about the leaking of radioactive materials into the jihadi network.",
  "* WikiLeaks ... compromised the security that governments are usually concerned about:  their security from inspection by their own populations. (p. 109) ",
  "* One respect in which the United States is unusually open is in declassifying government documents.  ... [W]e have better access to internal government decisions than any country that I know of.  The system isnt perfect ... .  [Most] declassified documents ... are just totally boring.  You can read through volume after volume of the Foreign Relations of the United States and maybe youll find three sentences that are worth paying any attention to.  Many of the classified documents have little to do with genuine security but a lot to do with preventing the population from knowing what the government is up to. I think thats true of what Ive seen of WikiLeaks, too. Take the one example I mentioned.  Ambassador Pattersons comments about Pakistan and the danger of the Bush-Obama policy destabilizing a country with one of the biggest nuclear weapons programs in the world ... .  Thats something the population ought to know about, but it has to be kept from them.  You have to describe our policies in terms of defending ourselves from attack when youre in fact increasing the threat of attack.  Thats true over and over again.",
  "* Incidentally, I dont say it [the US electoral system] is a charade; there are differences in the parties\u2014I dont think theyre great differences, but theyre real, and small differences in a system of great power can have enormous consequences.",
  "* Turning finally to the question raised, to be precise, it appears that [Hillary] Clinton received a slight majority of the vote. The apparent decisive victory [of Donald Trump] has to do with curious features of American politics: among other factors, the Electoral College residue of the founding of the country as an alliance of separate states; the winner-take-all system in each state; the arrangement of congressional districts (sometimes by gerrymandering) to provide greater weight to rural votes (in past elections, and probably this one too, Democrats have had a comfortable margin of victory in the popular vote for the House, but hold a minority of seats); the very high rate of abstention (usually close to half in presidential elections, this one included). Of some significance for the future is the fact that in the age 18-25 range, Clinton won handily, and Sanders had an even higher level of support. How much this matters depends on what kind of future humanity will face.",
  "* One of the great achievements of the doctrinal system has been to divert anger from the corporate sector to the government that implements the programs that the corporate sector designs, such as the highly protectionist corporate/investor rights agreements that are uniformly mis-described as \"free trade agreements\" in the media and commentary. With all its flaws, the government is, to some extent, under popular influence and control, unlike the corporate sector. It is highly advantageous for the business world to foster hatred for pointy-headed government bureaucrats and to drive out of peoples minds the subversive idea that the government might become an instrument of popular will, a government of, by and for the people.",
  "*If you look over the history of regulation \u2014 railroad regulation, financial regulation and so on \u2014 you find that, quite commonly, its either initiated by the economic concentrations that are being regulated, or its supported by them. And the reason is because they know that, sooner or later, they can take over the regulators and essentially run what they do. They can offer what amounts to bribes \u2014 offer them jobs or whatever it may be \u2014 its an advantage to the regulators to accommodate themselves to the will of the powerful. It happens naturally in many ways, and ends up with whats called \u201cregulatory capture.\u201d The business being regulated is in fact running the regulators. ",
  "*Each time, the taxpayer is called on to bail out those who created the crisis, increasingly the major financial institutions. In a capitalist economy, you wouldnt do that. In a capitalist system, that would wipe out the investors who made risky investments. But the rich and powerful, they dont want a capitalist system. They want to be able to run to the \u201cnanny state\u201d as soon as theyre in trouble, and get bailed out by the taxpayer. Theyre given a government insurance policy, which means that no matter how often you risk everything, if you get in trouble, the public will bail you out because youre too big to fail \u2014 and its just repeating over and over again.",
  "* If the population allows it to proceed, its just going to go on and on like this. Until the next crash \u2014 which is so much expected that credit agencies, which evaluate the status of firms, are now counting into their calculations the taxpayer bailout that they expect to come after the next crash... Everywhere you look, policies are designed this way, which should come as absolutely no surprise to anyone. Thats what happens when you put power into the hands of a narrow sector of wealth, which is dedicated to increasing power for itself \u2014 just as youd expect.",
  "*The Native population (in the US) suffered a migrant crisis of an incredible kind ... where the immigrants come in with the intention of exterminating and expelling the population... Should they institute war crimes trials...? It would not make a lot of sense. It would make a lot of sense to bring out understanding of what happened, to call for reparations and so on, but not war crimes trials. It just means nothing in these circumstances. Is it genocide? ... The Western hemisphere had about 80 million people when Columbus arrived, and pretty soon about 90 percent of them were gone (killed).",
  "*Did the Russians interfere in our elections? An issue of overwhelming concern in the media. I mean, in most of the world, thats almost a joke. First of all, if youre interested in foreign interference in our elections, whatever the Russians may have done barely counts or weighs in the balance as compared with what another state does, openly, brazenly and with enormous support. Israeli intervention in US elections vastly overwhelms anything the Russians may have done, I mean, even to the point where the prime minister of Israel, Netanyahu, goes directly to Congress, without even informing the president, and speaks to Congress, with overwhelming applause, to try to undermine the presidents policies - what happened with Obama and Netanyahu in 2015.\u201d",
  "*The crucial question...what is\u00a0fall of the Berlin Wall and the beginning of the collapse of the Soviet Union. Gorbachev... agreed to allow Germany, now unified, to join NATO... There was a\u00a0quid pro quo, namely that... NATO\u00a0means basically U.S. forces\u2014not expand to East Berlin, to East Germany... the phrase that was used was \u201cnot one inch to the east.\u201d NATO\u00a0immediately moved to East Germany. Under Clinton, other countries, former Russian satellites, were introduced into\u00a0NATO. Finally,\u00a0NATO\u00a0went so far, as I mentioned before...  to suggest that even Ukraine, right at the heartland of Russian strategic concerns...join\u00a0NATO. So, whats\u00a0NATO\u00a0doing altogether? Well, actually, its mission was changed. The official mission of\u00a0NATO\u00a0was changed to become to be\u2014to control and safeguard the global energy system, sea lanes, pipelines and so on. And, of course, on the side, its acting as a intervention force for the United States. Is that a legitimate reason for us to maintain\u00a0NATO, to be an instrument for U.S. global domination? I think thats a rather serious question. Thats not the question thats asked. ",
  "*The Democrats... gave Trump a huge gift. In fact, they may have handed him the next election. Thats just a\u2014thats a matter of being so unwilling to deal with fundamental issues, that theyre looking for something on the side that will somehow give political success. The real issues are different things. Theyre things like climate change, like global warming, like the Nuclear Posture Review, deregulation. These are real issues. But the Democrats arent going after those. Theyre looking for something else\u2014the Democratic establishment. Im not talking about the young cohort thats coming in, which is quite different. Just all of that has to be shifted significantly, if theres going to be a legitimate political opposition to the right-wing drift thats taking place. And it can happen, can definitely happen, but its going to take work. ",
  "*The United States government must cease interfering in Venezuelas internal politics, especially for the purpose of overthrowing the countrys government. Actions by the Trump administration and its allies in the hemisphere are almost certain to make the situation in Venezuela worse, leading to unnecessary human suffering, violence, and instability.",
  "*Venezuelas political polarization is not new; the country has long been divided along racial and socioeconomic lines. But the polarization has deepened in recent years. This is partly due to US support for an opposition strategy aimed at removing the government of Nicol\u00e1s Maduro through extra-electoral means. While the opposition has been divided on this strategy, US support has backed hardline opposition sectors in their goal of ousting the Maduro government through often violent protests, a military coup detat, or other avenues that sidestep the ballot box.",
  "*Under the Trump administration, aggressive rhetoric against the Venezuelan government has ratcheted up to a more extreme and threatening level, with Trump administration officials talking of \u201cmilitary action\u201d and condemning Venezuela, along with Cuba and Nicaragua, as part of a \u201ctroika of tyranny.\u201d Problems resulting from Venezuelan government policy have been worsened  by US economic sanctions, illegal under the Organization of American States and the United Nations \u2015 as well as US law and other international treaties and conventions. These sanctions have cut off the means by which the Venezuelan government could escape from its economic recession, while causing a dramatic falloff in oil production and worsening the economic crisis, and causing many people to die because they cant get access to life-saving medicines. Meanwhile, the US and other governments continue to blame the Venezuelan government \u2015 solely \u2015 for the economic damage, even that caused by the US sanctions.",
  "*The nuclear war, which has exacerbated it by the tearing whats left of the arms control regime and the other of course is the growing threat of global warming. Both threats can be dealt with but there isnt a lot of time... the corona virus is a horrible... can have terrifying consequences but there will be recovery, while the others wont be recovered, its finished. If we dont deal with them were done.",
  "*If were leaving our fate to sociopathic buffoons, were finished... Trump is the worst, thats because of US power which is overwhelming.  We are talking about U.S. decline but you just look at the world, you dont see that when the U.S. imposes sanctions, murderous, devastating sanctions, thats the only country that can do that, but everyone has to follow. international financial system. Thats not a law of nature, its a decision in Europe to be subordinate to the master in Washington. Other countries dont even have a choice....",
  "*And back to the coronavirus, one of the most shocking harsh aspects of it, is the use of sanctions, to maximize the pain, perfectly consciously, Iran is in a zone, enormous internal problems by the stranglehold of tightening  sanctions, which are consciously designed to make them suffer and suffer bitterly.  ",
  "*Now Mediterranean, fleeing from a region that has been devastated... and being sent to the deaths in the Mediterranean, you dont know what words to use.",
  "*The Crisis, the civilizational crisis of the West at this point is devastating... it does bring up childhood memories of listening to Hitler raving on the radio to raucous crowds... it makes you wonder if this species is even viable. ",
  "*I have a parrot. It can say sovereignty to all the people in Portuguese.",
  "* The scale of the plague is surprising, indeed shocking, but not its appearance. Nor the fact that the U.S. has the worst record in responding to the crisis. Scientists have been warning of a pandemic for years, insistently so since the SARS epidemic of 2003, also caused by a {{w|coronavirus}}, for which vaccines were developed but did not proceed beyond the pre-clinical level. That was the time to begin to put in place rapid-response systems in preparation for an outbreak and to set aside spare capacity that would be needed. Initiatives could also have been undertaken to develop defenses and modes of treatment for a likely recurrence with a related virus. But scientific understanding is not enough. There has to be someone to pick up the ball and run with it. That option was barred by the pathology of the contemporary {{w|socioeconomic}} order. preventing a future catastrophe.",
  "* The government could have stepped in, but thats barred by reigning doctrine: \"Government is the problem,\" Reagan told us with his sunny smile, meaning that decision-making has to be handed over even more fully to the business world, which is devoted to private profit and is free from influence by those who might be concerned with the lack of ventilators that is one the major bottlenecks in confronting the pandemic. ",
  "* There will be recovery from the COVID-19 crisis, at severe and possibly horrendous cost, particularly for the poor and more vulnerable. But there will be no recovery from the melting of the polar ice sheets and the other devastating consequences of global warming. Here, too, the catastrophe results from a market failure \u2014 in this case, of truly earth-shaking proportions.",
  "* The current administration had ample warning about a likely pandemic. In fact, a high-level simulation was run as recently as last October. Trump has reacted during his years in office in the manner to which we have become accustomed: by defunding and dismantling every relevant part of government and assiduously implementing the instructions of his corporate masters to eliminate the regulations that impede profits while saving lives \u2014 and leading the race to the abyss of {{w|environmental catastrophe}}, by far his greatest crime \u2014 in fact, the greatest crime in history when we consider the consequences. ",
  "* Trump was not silent, however. He issued a stream of confident pronouncements informing the public that it was just a cough; he has everything under control; he gets a 10 out of 10 for his handling of the crisis; its very serious but he knew it was a pandemic before anyone else; and the rest of the sorry performance. The technique is well-designed, much like the practice of reeling out lies so fast that the very concept of truth vanishes. Whatever happens, Trump is sure to be vindicated among his loyal followers. When you shoot arrows at random, some are likely to hit the target.",
  "* One effect is the shockingly belated and limited testing, well below others, making it impossible to implement the successful test-and-trace strategies that have prevented the epidemic from breaking out of control in functioning societies. Even the best hospitals lack basic equipment. The U.S. is now the global epicenter of the crisis. This only skims the surface of Trumpian malevolence, but theres no space for more here. It is tempting to cast the blame on Trump for the disastrous response to the crisis. But if we hope to avert future catastrophes, we must look beyond him. Trump came to office in a sick society, afflicted by 40 years of neoliberalism, with still deeper roots.",
  "* The neoliberal version of capitalism has been in force since Reagan and generosity to the super-rich is of direct relevance today as another tax haven}}s and other devices to shift the stock buybacks \u2014 a device to inflate {{w|stock value}}s and enrich management and the very wealthy (who own most of the stock) while undermining the {{w|productive capacity}} of the enterprise.",
  "* The U.S.s privatized for-profit per capita expenses of other developed societies and some of the worst outcomes. Neoliberal doctrine struck another blow, introducing business measures of efficiency: just-on-time service with no fat in the system. Any disruption and the system collapses. Much the same is true of the fragile global economic order forged on neoliberal principles. This is the world that Trump inherited, the target of his battering ram. [...] It seems that many Americans would prefer to spend more money as long as it doesnt go to taxes (incidentally killing tens of thousands of people annually). Thats a telling indication of the state of American democracy, as people experience it; and from another perspective, of the force of the doctrinal system crafted by business power and its intellectual servants. The neoliberal assault has intensified this pathological element of the national culture, but the roots go much deeper and are illustrated in many ways, a topic very much worth pursuing.",
  "* If you look at the birth rate in the U.S. right now, the majority are non-white, you dont have to know the statistics to know what that means. They will lose the white supremacy. The concept of being white is not a race concept, but rather sociological. If you go back, not very far, Jews were not considered white. Neither were the Irish. In late-19th century Boston, you could find signs at restaurants saying \u201cNo dogs or Irish.\u201d They gradually became white as they assimilated into the culture, especially when they gained wealth and political power. And thats now happening with the Hispanic population.",
  "* Lets assume Biden goes back to Obama\u2019s policies. Contrary to what many Israelis think, Obama was the most pro-Israel president prior to Trump. He never imposed any demands on Israel. Israels settlement freeze in 2010 under Obama was a complete farce. And everyone knows it. The Israeli press reported correctly that it had no effect. Instead of building new settlements, they called it expansion.",
  "* There is hope for the Palestinians, but it doesnt lie with Biden, it lies with the public opinion in the U.S., which cant be suppressed forever. If you go back 20 years, the support for Israel would be among liberal democrats. Now its shifting to evangelicals and ultranationalists. And support for Palestinians is growing among liberals \u2013 especially the young ones. Sooner or later that might influence policy.",
  "* At one point you talked about the change from language acquisition to language development. And I think thats a very significant idea. Language isnt really learned; it just grows in the mind. Its something that develops naturally, automatically [...]. Its almost like learning to walk. You dont learn to walk, it just comes automatically. At a certain point a child stands up, starts moving, figures it, gets to understand how to distribute your weight. Nobodys taught you this, but, a lot of calculation and computation goes into simply walking down the street. You dont know the rules, you couldnt know the rules, maybe some biologist could figure out what they are. But thats not the way you pick up walking.",
  "*We\u2019ve been living through about 45 years of a particular socio-economic political system, what\u2019s called neoliberalism... The so-called free trade agreements or radically protectionist that we\u2019re seeing that right now in front of our eyes, we see virtual monopoly on drugs. What we\u2019ve really had for the 45 years is what so many economists have called a bail out economy. So it\u2019s one side of class war, markets for the poor, protection for the rich.",
  "*The one-sided class war of the last 40 years is becoming two-sided. The population is actually beginning to participate instead of just accepting the hammer blows. We now are having a huge strike. One of the major strikes in American history, when workers are simply saying, we\u2019re not gonna go back to the rotten, oppressive jobs, precarious, broadens circumstances is novel, we\u2019re just not gonna accept it. And that\u2019s a major factor in the economy now. And yes, it\u2019s a strike and it\u2019s showing up in other ways too, there are, for example, the teacher\u2019s strikes were quite important. These are non-unionized red states, tremendous popular support. When you live in Arizona, where one of them was signs on every lawn, supporting the teachers, not a radical state by any means. They were not just calling for better wages, which they greatly deserve, but for saving the children, saving the public school, public education, which has been under severe attack for 45 years.",
  "*We should recognize that white male supremacy is a deep current in American history. It\u2019s not gonna go away immediately. But there have been dents, significant ones. So for example, even in the mainstream, when the New York Times ran the 1619 Project, it couldn\u2019t have happened a couple of years earlier. And it\u2019s because of changes in general consciousness and awareness. Of course, there was an immediate backlash, strong backlash, and you\u2019re gonna expect that, white male supremacy is a deep part of American history and culture. To extirpate it is not gonna be easy. And, but there are, there\u2019s very significant progress. Plenty of conflict coming. It\u2019s not gonna be an easy struggle.",
  "*The main part of politics is mobilization. ...The fact that mobilization and activism, or the core of The Sunrise Movement is one of the, at the forefront of activism on climate. They got the point of AOC came to join them.    They weren\u2019t thrown out, moved on, that\u2019s what led to Biden\u2019s climate program. Not great, but better than anything before.Popular activism interacting with supportive people in Congress tend to lead to results. And this is an old lesson, we should learn. It takes a new deal, which greatly improved of the floors, greatly improved American society. How did it come about? Hand-built by a combination of militant labor action, CIO organizing, sit down strikes and a sympathetic administration. That combination is crucial.",
  "*Biden has pretty much picked up Trump\u2019s foreign policy. He has eliminated some of the more gratuitously savage elements. Like in the case of Israeli right-wing power\u2014\u201ddo what you want\u201d\u2014and offering nothing to the Palestinians, just kicking them in the face. He even had to go beyond that to truly gratuitous savagery like cutting off the lifeline, the UNRWA lifeline, for Palestinians to be able to have at least minimal bare survival in the Israeli punching bag in Gaza. Even that, well, Biden removed those things. Other than that, pretty much followed the same policies.",
  "*The worst case is the increasing provocative actions towards China... there is constant talk about what is called the China threat. You can read it in sober, reasonable, usually reasonable journals, about the terrible China threat, and that we have to move expeditiously to contain and limit the China threat.... What exactly is the China threat? Actually that question is rarely raised here.... the distinguished statesman, former [Australian] Prime Minister Paul Keating, did have an essay in the Australian press about the China threat. He finally concluded realistically that the China threat is China\u2019s existence. The U.S. will not tolerate the existence of a state that cannot be intimidated the way Europe can be, that does not follow U.S. orders the way Europe does but pursues its own course. That is the threat.When we talk about the threat of China, we\u2019re talking about the alleged threats at China\u2019s borders. China does plenty of wrong things, terrible things. You can make many criticisms. But are they a threat?... they are not a threat. ",
  "*Right at the same time as Keating\u2019s article, Australia\u2019s leading military correspondent Brian Toohey, highly knowledgeable, did an assessment of the relative military power of China, in their own region of China and the United States and its allies Japan and Australia. It\u2019s laughable. One U.S. Trident submarine, now being replaced by even more lethal ones \u2014 one U.S. submarine can destroy almost 200 cities anywhere in the world with its AUKUS deal\u2014the Australia, U.K., United States\u2014which have no strategic purpose whatsoever.They will not even be in operation for 15 years, but they do incite China almost certainly to build up its lagging military forces, increasing the level of confrontation. There are problems in the South China Sea that can be met with foreign policy programs."
]