[
  "* On Jamess view, \"true\" resembles \"good\" or \"rational\" in being a normative notion, a compliment paid to sentences that seem to be paying their way and that fit with other sentences which are doing so.",
  "* My principal motive is the belief that we can still make admirable sense of our lives even if we cease to have \u2026 \"an ambition of transcendence.\"",
  "* As long as we try to project from the relative and conditioned to the absolute and unconditioned, we shall keep the pendulum swinging between dogmatism and skepticism.  The only way to stop this increasingly tiresome pendulum swing is to change our conception of what philosophy is good for.  But that is not something which will be accomplished by a few neat arguments.  It will be accomplished, if it ever is, by a long, slow process of cultural change \u2013 that is to say, of change in common sense, changes in the intuitions available for being pumped up by philosophical arguments.",
  "* Philosophy makes progress not by becoming more rigorous but by becoming more imaginative.",
  "* Truthfulness under oath is, by now, a matter of our civic religion, our relation to our fellow citizens rather than our relation to a nonhuman power.",
  "* \u2026 our maturation has consisted in the gradual realization that, if we can rely on one another, we need not rely on anything else. In religious terms, this is the Feuerbachian thesis that God is just a projection of the best, and sometimes the worst, of humanity. In philosophical terms, it is the thesis that anything that talk of objectivity can do to make our practices intelligible can be done equally well by talk of intersubjectivity.",
  "* Nowadays, to say that we are clever animals is not to say something philosophical and pessimistic but something political and hopeful \u2013 namely, if we can work together, we can make ourselves into whatever we are clever and courageous enough to imagine ourselves becoming. This is to set aside Kant\u2019s question \u201cWhat is man?\u201d and to substitute the question \u201cWhat sort of world can we prepare for our great grandchildren?\u201d",
  "* If I had to lay bets, my bet would be that everything is going to go to hell, but, you know, what else have we got except hope?",
  "* Philosophers get attention only when they appear to be doing something sinister\u2014corrupting the youth, undermining the foundations of civilization, sneering at all we hold dear. The rest of the time everybody assumes that they are hard at work somewhere down in the sub-basement, keeping those foundations in good repair. Nobody much cares what brand of intellectual duct tape is being used.",
  "* Complaints about the social irresponsibility of the intellectual typically concern the intellectual\u2019s tendency to marginalize herself, to move out from one community by interior identification of herself with some other community\u2014for example, another country or historical period. \u2026 It is not clear that those who thus marginalize themselves can be criticized for social irresponsibility. One cannot be irresponsible toward a community of which one does not think of oneself as a member. Otherwise runaway slaves and tunnelers under the Berlin Wall would be irresponsible.",
  "* To abjure the notion of the \u201ctruly human\u201d is to abjure the attempt to divinize the self as a replacement for a divinized world.",
  "*Kripke tries to sober us up by denying that meaning determines reference. Rather, we name things by confronting them and baptising them, not by creating them out of a list of qualities. Names are not,\u00a0pace\u00a0Russell, shorthand for such lists. They are not abbreviations for descriptions, but (in Kripke\u2019s coinage) \u2018rigid designators\u2019 \u2013 that is, they would name the same things in any possible world, including worlds in which their bearers did not have the properties we, in this world, use to identify them.",
  "*I think of the course of human history as a long, swelling, increasingly polyphonic poem - a poem that leads up to nothing save itself. When the species is extinct, \"human natures total message\" will not be a set of propositions, but a set of vocabularies - the more, and the more various, the better.",
  "*Almost as soon as I began to study philosophy, I was impressed by the way in which philosophical problems appeared, disappeared, or changed shape, as a result of new assumptions or vocabularies. ",
  "*From Richard McKeon and Robert Brumsbaugh I learned to view the history of philosophy as a series, not of alternative solutions to the same problems, but of quite different sets of problems. From Rudolph Carnap and Carl Hempel I learned how pseudo-problems could be revealed as such by restarting them in the formal mode of speech. From Charles Hartshorne and Paul Weiss I learned how they could be so revealed by being translated into Whiteheadian or Hegelian terms. ",
  "* Citizens of a Jeffersonian democracy can be as religious or irreligious as they please as long as they are not \u201cfanatical.\u201d That is, they must abandon or modify opinion on matters of ultimate importance, the opinions that may hitherto have given sense and point to their lives, if these opinions entail public actions that cannot be justified to most of their fellow citizens.",
  "* When the individual finds in her conscience beliefs that are relevant to public policy but incapable of the defense on the basis of beliefs common to her fellow citizens, she must sacrifice her conscience on the altar of public expediency.",
  "* Contemporary intellectuals have given up the Enlightenment assumption that religion, myth, and tradition can be opposed to something ahistorical, something common to all human beings qua human.",
  "* Rather, we heirs of Enlightenment think of enemies of liberal democracy like Rawls\u2019s word, \u201cmad.\u201d We do so because there is no way to see them as fellow citizens of our constitutional democracy, people whose life plans might, given ingenuity and good will, be fitted in with those of other citizens. They are crazy because the limits of sanity are set by what we can take seriously. This, in turn, is determined by our upbringing, our historical situation.",
  "* It is no more evident that democratic institutions are to be measured by the sort of person they create than that they are to be measured against divine commands. \u2026 Even if the typical character types of liberal democracies are bland, calculating, petty, and unheroic, the prevalence of such people may be a reasonable price to pay for political freedom.",
  "* The encouragement of light-mindedness about traditional philosophical topics serves the same purposes as does the encouragement of light-mindedness about traditional theological topics. Like the rise of large market economies, the increase in literacy, the proliferation of artistic genres, and the insouciant pluralism of contemporary culture, such philosophical superficiality and light-mindedness helps along the disenchantment of the world. It helps make the world\u2019s inhabitants more pragmatic, more tolerant, more liberal, more receptive to the appeal of instrumental rationality."
]