[
  "* Poor little foal of an oppress\u00e8d race!  I love the languid patience of thy face.",
  "* Blest hour! it was a luxury \u2014 to be!",
  "* \"Most musical, most melancholy\" bird!A melancholy bird! Oh! idle thought!In nature there is nothing melancholy.But some night-wandering man, whose heart was piercedWith the remembrance of a grievous wrong,Or slow distemper, or neglected love,(And so, poor wretch! filled all things with himself,And made all gentle sounds tell back the taleOf his own sorrow) he, and such as he,First named these notes a melancholy strain.",
  "* Thou rising Sun! thou blue rejoicing Sky!  Yea! every thing that is and will be free!  Bear witness for me, wheresoer ye be,  With what deep worship I have still adored  The spirit of divinest Liberty.",
  "* The frost performs its secret ministry,  Unhelped by any wind.",
  "* Or if the secret ministry of frost  Shall hang them up in silent icicles,  Quietly shining to the quiet moon.",
  "* Forth from his dark and lonely hiding place  (Portentous-sight!) the owlet Atheism,  Sailing an obscene wings athwart the noon,  Drops his blue-fring\u00e8d lids, and holds them close,  And hooting at the glorious sun in Heaven,  Cries out, \"Where is it?\"",
  "* And the Devil did grin, for his darling sin  Is pride that apes humility.",
  "* Strongly it bears us along in swelling and limitless billows,  Nothing before and nothing behind but the sky and the ocean.",
  "* In the hexameter rises the fountains silvery column;  In the pentameter aye falling in melody back.",
  "* All thoughts, all passions, all delights,  Whatever stirs this mortal frame,  All are but ministers of Love,  And feed his sacred flame.",
  "* Aloof with hermit-eye I scan  The present works of present man \u2014  A wild and dreamlike trade of blood and guile,  Too foolish for a tear, too wicked for a smile!",
  "* How seldom, friend! a good great man inherits  Honor or wealth, with all his worth and pains!  It sounds like stories from the land of spirits  If any man obtain that which he merits,  Or any merit that which he obtains.. . . . . . . . .Greatness and goodness are not means, but ends!Hath he not always treasures, always friends,The good great man? Three treasures,\u2014love and light,And calm thoughts, regular as infants breath;And three firm friends, more sure than day and night,\u2014Himself, his Maker, and the angel Death.",
  "* What is an Epigram? a dwarfish whole,Its body brevity, and wit its soul.",
  "* Trochee trips from long to short;  From long to long in solemn sort  Slow Spondee stalks.",
  "* And in Lifes noisiest hour,  There whispers still the ceaseless Love of Thee,  The hearts Self-solace and soliloquy.You mould my Hopes, you fashion me within.",
  "* And looking to the Heaven, that bends above you,  How oft! I bless the Lot, that made me love you.",
  "* The Dwarf sees farther than the Giant, when he has the Giants shoulders to mount on.",
  "* Poetry is not the proper antithesis to prose, but to science. Poetry is opposed to science, and prose to metre. The proper and immediate object of science is the acquirement, or communication, of truth; the proper and immediate object of poetry is the communication of immediate pleasure.",
  "* Reviewers are usually people who would have been poets, historians, biographers, etc., if they could; they have tried their talents at one or the other, and have failed; therefore they turn critics.",
  "* The last speech, the motive-hunting of a motiveless malignity \u2014 how awful!",
  "* The imagination ... that reconciling and mediatory power, which incorporating the reason in images of the sense and organizing (as it were) the flux of the senses by the permanence and self-circling energies of the reason, gives birth to a system of symbols, harmonious in themselves, and consubstantial with the truths of which they are the conductors.",
  "* The knights bones are dust,  And his good sword rust;  His soul is with the saints, I trust.",
  "* With Donne, whose muse on dromedary trots,  Wreathe iron pokers into true-love knots;  Rhymes sturdy cripple, fancys maze and clue,  Wits forge and fire-blast, meanings press and screw.",
  "*Humour is consistent with pathos, whilst wit is not.",
  "* The Eighth Commandment was not made for bards.",
  "* Nought cared this Body for wind or weather  When Youth and I lived int together.",
  "* Flowers are lovely; love is flower-like;  Friendship is a sheltering tree;Oh the joys that came down shower-like,Of friendship, love, and liberty,Ere I was old!",
  "* In many ways doth the full heart reveal  The presence of the love it would conceal.",
  "* I counted two and seventy stenches,  All well defined, and several stinks.",
  "* The river Rhine, it is well known,  Doth wash your city of Cologne;  But tell me, Nymphs, what power divine  Shall henceforth wash the river Rhine?",
  "* The happiness of life is made up of minute fractions \u2014 the little soon forgotten charities of a kiss or smile, a kind look, a heartfelt compliment, and the countless infinitesimals of pleasurable and genial feeling.",
  "* Intense study of the Bible will keep any writer from being vulgar, in point of style.",
  "* Beneath this sod  A poet lies, or that which once seemed he \u2014  Oh, lift a thought in prayer for S.T.C!  That he, who many a year, with toil of breath,  Found death in life, may here find life in death.",
  "*He saw a lawyer killing a viper  On a dunghill hard, by his own stable  And the devil smiled, for it put him in mind Of  Cain and his brother, Abel.",
  "* If a man could pass through Paradise in a dream, and have a flower presented to him as a pledge that his soul had really been there, and if he found that flower in his hand when he awake \u2014 Aye! and what then?",
  "* Seldom can philosophic genius be more usefully employed than in thus rescuing admitted truths from the neglect caused by the very circumstance of their universal admission.",
  "* In philosophy equally as in poetry it is the highest and most useful prerogative of genius to produce the strongest impressions of novelty, while it rescues admitted truths from the neglect caused by the very circumstance of their universal admission.",
  "* Truths ... are too often considered as so true, that they lose all the power of truth, and lie bed-ridden in the dormitory of the soul, side by side with the most despised and exploded errors.",
  "* Manly energy ... is the proper rendering [for \u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd], and not virtue, at least in the present and ordinary acceptation of the word.",
  "* He, who begins by loving Christianity better than Truth, will proceed by loving his own Sect or Church better than Christianity, and end in loving himself better than all.",
  "* It is a dull and obtuse mind, that must divide in order to distinguish; but it is a still worse, that distinguishes in order to divide. In the former, we may contemplate the source of superstition and idolatry; in the latter of schism, heresy! and a seditious and sectarian spirit. ",
  "* \u201cThey did not like to retain God in their knowledge\u201d (Rom. i. 28), and though they could not extinguish \u201cthe Light that lighteth every man,\u201d and which \u201cshone in the darkness;\u201d yet because the darkness could not comprehend the Light, they refused to bear witness of it, and worshipped, instead, the shaping mist, which the Light had drawn upward from the ground (i.e., from the mere animal nature and instinct), and which that Light alone had made visible (i.e., by super-inducing on the animal instinct the principle of self-consciousness)",
  "* In wonder all philosophy began, in wonder it ends. ... But the first wonder is the offspring of ignorance, the last is the parent of adoration.",
  "* As in respect of the first wonder we are all on the same level, how comes it that the philosophic mind should, in all ages, be the privilege of a few? The most obvious reason is this: The wonder takes place before the period of reflection, and (with the great mass of mankind) long before the individual is capable of directing his attention freely and consciously to the feeling, or even to its exciting causes. Surprise (the form and dress which the wonder of ignorance usually puts on) is worn away, if not precluded, by custom and familiarity.",
  "* The anxiety to be admired is a loveless passion ... , loud on the hustings, gay in the ball-room, mute and sullen at the family fireside.",
  "* In Xanadu did Kubla Khan  A stately pleasure-dome decree:  Where Alph, the sacred river, ran  Through caverns measureless to man  Down to a sunless sea.",
  "* So twice five miles of fertile ground  With walls and towers were girdled round:  And there were gardens bright with sinuous rills,  Where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree;  And here were forests ancient as the hills,  Enfolding sunny spots of greenery.",
  "* But oh! that deep romantic chasm which slanted  Down the green hill athwart a cedarn cover!  A savage place! as holy and enchanted  As eer beneath a waning moon was haunted  By woman wailing for her demon-lover!  And from this chasm, with ceaseless turmoil seething,  As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing,  A mighty fountain momently was forced:",
  "* Amid whose swift half-intermitted burst  Huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail,  Or chaffy grain beneath the threshers flail :  And mid these dancing rocks at once and ever  It flung up momently the sacred river.",
  "* Five miles meandering with a mazy motion  Through wood and dale the sacred river ran,  Then reached the caverns measureless to man,  And sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean:  And mid this tumult Kubla heard from far  Ancestral voices prophesying war!",
  "* The shadow of the dome of pleasure  Floated midway on the waves;  Where was heard the mingled measure  From the fountain and the caves.",
  "* It was a miracle of rare device,  A sunny pleasure-dome with caves of ice!",
  "* A damsel with a dulcimer  In a vision once I saw:  It was an Abyssinian maid,  And on her dulcimer she played,  Singing of Mount Abora.  Could I revive within me  Her symphony and song,  To such a deep delight twould win me,  That with music loud and long,  I would build that dome in air,  That sunny dome! those caves of ice!  And all who heard should see them there,  And all should cry, Beware! Beware!  His flashing eyes, his floating hair!  Weave a circle round him thrice,  And close your eyes with holy dread,  For he on honey-dew hath fed,  And drunk the milk of Paradise.",
  "* Sir Leoline, the Baron rich,  Hath a toothless mastiff bitch.",
  "* There is not wind enough to twirl  The one red leaf, the last of its clan,  That dances as often as dance it can,  Hanging so light, and hanging so high,  On the topmost twig that looks up at the sky.",
  "* Her gentle limbs did she undress,  And lay down in her loveliness.",
  "* A sight to dream of, not to tell!",
  "* Saints will aid if men will call:  For the blue sky bends over all!",
  "* Alas! they had been friends in youth;But whispering tongues can poison truth,And constancy lives in realms above;  And life is thorny; and youth is vain;  And to be wroth with one we love  Doth work like madness in the brain.",
  "* The grand old ballad of Sir Patrick Spence.",
  "* Yon crescent Moon, as fixed as if it grew  In its own cloudless, starless lake of blue;  I see them all so excellently fair,  I see, not feel, how beautiful they are!",
  "* O lady! we receive but what we give  And in our life alone does Nature live.",
  "* A light, a glory, a fair luminous cloud  Enveloping the earth.",
  "* Joy is the sweet voice, Joy the luminous cloud \u2014  We in ourselves rejoice!  And thence flows all that charms or ear or sight,  All melodies the echoes of that voice,  All colours a suffusion from that light.",
  "* Hast thou a charm to stay the morning-star  In his steep course? So long he seems to pause  On thy bald awful head, \u041e sovran Blanc!",
  "* Around thee and above,  Deep is the air and dark, substantial, black,  An ebon mass; methinks thou piercest it,  As with a wedge! But when I look again,  It is thine own calm home, thy crystal shrine,  Thy habitation from eternity!",
  "* Risest from forth thy silent sea of pines.",
  "* Motionless torrents! silent cataracts!",
  "* Ye living flowers that skirt the eternal frost.",
  "* O dread and silent mount! I gazed upon thee,  Till thou, still present to the bodily sense,  Didst vanish from my thought : entranced in prayer,  I worshipped the Invisible alone.",
  "* Awake, my soul! not only passive praise  Thou owest! not alone these swelling tears,  Mute thanks and secret ecstasy. Awake,  Voice of sweet song! awake, my heart, awake!  Green vales and icy cliffs, all join my hymn.",
  "* Who made you glorious as the gates of heaven  Beneath the keen full moon ? Who bade the sun  Clothe you with rainbows ? Who, with living flower  Of loveliest blue, spread garlands at your feet ?  God! let the torrents, like a shout of nations,  Answer ! and let the ice-plains echo, God!  God!  sing, ye meadow-streams, with gladsome voice!  Ye pine-groves, with your soft and soul-like sounds !  And they too have a voice, yon piles of snow,  And in their perilous fall shall thunder, God!",
  "* Ye lightnings, the dread arrows of the clouds!  Ye signs and wonders of the element!  Utter forth  God, and fill the hills with praise!",
  "* Solemnly seemest like a vapoury cloud  To rise before me \u2014 Rise, oh, ever rise;  Rise like a cloud of incense from the earth!  Thou kingly spirit throned among the hills,  Thou dread ambassador from earth to heaven,  Great hierarch! tell thou the silent sky,  And tell the stars, and tell yon rising sun,  Earth, with her thousand voices, praises God.",
  "* Taste is the intermediate faculty which connects the active with the passive powers of our nature, the intellect with the senses; and its appointed function is to elevate the images of the latter, while it realizes the ideas of the former.",
  "* The most general definition of beauty ... Multeity in Unity.",
  "* The Good consists in the congruity of a thing with the laws of the reason and the nature of the will, and in its fitness to determine the latter to actualize the former: and it is always discursive. The Beautiful arises from the perceived harmony of an object, whether sight or sound, with the inborn and constitutive rules of the judgment and imagination: and it is always intuitive.",
  "* Not the poem which we have read, but that to which we return, with the greatest pleasure, possesses the genuine power, and claims the name of essential poetry.",
  "* Every reform, however necessary, will by weak minds be carried to an excess, that itself will need reforming.",
  "* Experience informs us that the first defence of weak minds is to recriminate.",
  "* Indignation at literary wrongs I leave to men born under happier stars. I cannot afford it.",
  "* Milton had a highly imaginative, Cowley a very fanciful mind.",
  "* An idea, in the highest sense of that word, cannot be conveyed but by a symbol.",
  "* Veracity does not consist in saying, but in the intention of communicating truth.",
  "* Never pursue literature as a trade.",
  "* Until you understand a writers ignorance, presume yourself ignorant of his understanding.",
  "* During the act of knowledge itself, the objective and subjective are so instantly united, that we cannot determine to which of the two the priority belongs.",
  "* The primary Imagination I hold to be the living power and prime agent of all human perception, and as a repetition in the finite mind of the eternal act of creation in the infinite I AM.",
  "* The secondary Imagination I consider as an echo of the former, co-existing with the conscious will, yet still as identical with the primary in the kind of its agency, and differing only in degree, and in the mode of its operation. It dissolves, diffuses, dissipates, in order to recreate: or where this process is rendered impossible, yet still at all events it struggles to idealize and to unify. It is essentially vital, even as all objects (as objects) are essentially fixed and dead.",
  "* The fancy is indeed no other than a mode of memory emancipated from the order of time and space.",
  "* Our conversations turned frequently on the two cardinal points of poetry, the power of exciting the sympathy of the reader by a faithful adherence to the truth of nature, and the power of giving the interest of novelty by the modifying colours of imagination.",
  "* That willing suspension of disbelief for the moment, which constitutes poetic faith.",
  "* The poet, described in ideal perfection, brings the whole soul of man into activity, with the subordination of its faculties to each other according to their relative worth and dignity. He diffuses a tone and spirit of unity, that blends, and (as it were) fuses, each into each, by that synthetic and magical power, to which I would exclusively appropriate the name of Imagination.",
  "* This power...reveals itself in the balance or reconcilement of opposite or discordant qualities: of sameness, with difference; of the general with the concrete; the idea with the image; the individual with the representative; the sense of novelty and freshness with old and familiar objects; a more than usual state of emotion with more than usual order; judgment ever awake and steady self-possession with enthusiasm and feeling profound or vehement; and while it blends and harmonizes the natural and the artificial, still subordinates art to nature; the manner to the matter; and our admiration of the poet to our sympathy with the poetry.",
  "* It has been observed before that images, however beautiful, though faithfully copied from nature, and as accurately represented in words, do not of themselves characterize the poet. They become proofs of original genius only as far as they are modified by a predominant passion; or by associated thoughts or images awakened by that passion; or when they have the effect of reducing multitude to unity, or succession to an instant; or lastly, when a human and intellectual life is transferred to them from the poets spirit.",
  "* No man was ever yet a great poet, without being at the same time a profound philosopher.",
  "* Shakespeare, no mere child of nature ; no automaton of genius; no passive vehicle of inspiration possessed by the spirit, not possessing it; first studied patiently, meditated deeply, understood minutely, till knowledge became habitual and intuitive, wedded itself to his habitual feelings, and at length gave birth to that stupendous power by which he stands alone, with no equal or second in his own class ; to that power which seated him on one of the two glorysmitten summits of the poetic mountain, with Milton \u0430s his compeer, not rival. While the former darts himself forth, and passes into all the forms of human character and passion, the one Proteus of the fire and the flood ; the other attracts all forms and things to himself, into the unity of his own Ideal. All things and modes of action shape themselves anew in the being of Milton; while Shakspeare becomes all things, yet for ever remaining himself.",
  "* The myriad-minded man, our, and all mens, Shakespeare, has in this piece presented us with a legitimate farce in exactest consonance with the philosophical principles and character of farce, as distinguished from comedy and from entertainments. A proper farce is mainly distinguished from comedy by the licence allowed, and even required, in the fable, in order to produce strange and laughable situations. The story need not be probable, it is enough that it is possible.",
  "* The best part of human language, properly so called, is derived from reflection on the acts of the mind itself.",
  "* In poetry, in which every line, every phrase, may pass the ordeal of deliberation and deliberate choice, it is possible, and barely possible, to attain that ultimatum which I have ventured to propose as the infallible test of a blameless style; namely, its untranslatableness in words of the same language without injury to the meaning.",
  "* Now Art, used collectively for painting, sculpture, architecture and music, is the mediatress between, and reconciler of, nature and man. It is, therefore, the power of humanizing nature, of infusing the thoughts and passions of man into everything which is the object of his contemplation.",
  "* The artist must imitate that which is within the thing, that which is active through form and figure, and discourses to us by symbols.",
  "* The heart should have fed upon the truth, as insects on a leaf, till it be tinged with the color, and show its food in every ... minutest fiber.",
  "* Schiller has the material sublime.",
  "* Plagiarists are always suspicious of being stolen from, \u2014 as pickpockets are observed commonly to walk with their hands in their breeches pockets.",
  "* Kean is original; but he copies from himself. His rapid descents from the hyper-tragic to the infra-colloquial, though sometimes productive of great effect, are often unreasonable. To see him act, is like reading Shakespeare by flashes of lightning. I do not think him thorough-bred gentleman enough to play Othello.",
  "* The Earth with its scarred face is the symbol of the Past; the Air and Heaven, of Futurity.",
  "* Hamlets character is the prevalence of the abstracting and generalizing habit over the practical. He does not want courage, skill, will, or opportunity; but every incident sets him thinking; and it is curious, and at the same time strictly natural, that Hamlet, who all the play seems reason itself, should he impelled, at last, by mere accident to effect his object. I have a smack of Hamlet myself, if I may say so.",
  "* I wish our clever young poets would remember my homely definitions of prose and poetry; that is, prose = words in their best order; poetry = the best words in their best order.",
  "* The Reformation in the sixteenth century narrowed Reform. As soon as men began to call themselves names, all hope of further amendment was lost.",
  "* The mans desire is for the woman; but the womans desire is rarely other than for the desire of the man.",
  "* Painting is the intermediate somewhat between a thought and a thing.",
  "* Poetry is certainly something more than good sense, but it must be good sense at all events; just as a palace is more than a house, but it must be a house, at least.",
  "* That passage is what I call the sublime dashed to pieces by cutting too close with the fiery four-in-hand round the corner of nonsense.",
  "* The book of Job is pure Arab poetry of the highest and most antique cast.",
  "* Shakespeare is the Spinosistic deity \u2014 an omnipresent creativeness. Milton is the deity of prescience; he stands ab extra, and drives a fiery chariot and four, making the horses feel the iron curb which holds them in. Shakspeares poetry is characterless; that is, it does not reflect the individual Shakspeare; but John Milton himself is in every line of the Paradise Lost. Shakspeares rhymed verses are excessively condensed, \u2014 epigrams with the point every where; but in his blank dramatic verse he is diffused, with a linked sweetness long drawn out.",
  "* The present system of taking oaths is horrible. It is awfully absurd to make a man invoke Gods wrath upon himself, if he speaks false; it is, in my judgment, a sin to do so.",
  "* The Pilgrims Progress is composed in the lowest style of English, without slang or false grammar. If you were to polish it, you would at once destroy the reality of the vision. For works of imagination should be written in very plain language; the more purely imaginative they are the more necessary it is to be plain.",
  "* He told me that facts gave birth to, and were the absolute ground of, principles; to which I said, that unless he had a principle of selection, he would not have taken notice of those facts upon which he grounded his principle. You must have a lantern in your hand to give light, otherwise all the materials in the world are useless, for you cannot find them; and if you could, you could not arrange them.",
  "* A poet ought not to pick natures pocket: let him borrow, and so borrow as to repay by the very act of borrowing. Examine nature accurately, but write from recollection; and trust more to your imagination than to your memory.",
  "* If men could learn from history, what lessons it might teach us! But passion and party blind our eyes, and the light which experience gives is a lantern on the stern, which shines only on the waves behind us!",
  "* The truth is, a great mind must be androgynous.",
  "* In the treatment of nervous cases, he is the best physician who is the most ingenious inspirer of hope.",
  "* You talk about making this article cheaper by reducing its price in the market from 8 d. to 6 d. But suppose, in so doing, you have rendered your country weaker against a foreign foe; suppose you have demoralized thousands of your fellow-countrymen, and have sown discontent between one class of society and another, your article is tolerably dear, I take it, after all.",
  "* The principle of the Gothic architecture is infinity made imaginable. It is no doubt a sublimer effort of genius than the Greek style; but then it depends much more on execution for its effect.",
  "* I am glad you came in to punctuate my discourse, which I fear has gone on for an hour without any stop at all.",
  "* The true key to the declension of the Roman empire \u2014 which is not to be found in all Gibbons immense work \u2014 may be stated in two words: \u2014 the imperial character overlaying, and finally destroying, the national character. Rome under Trajan was an empire without a nation.",
  "* Brute animals have the vowel sounds; man only can utter consonants.",
  "* I am never very forward in offering spiritual consolation to any one in distress or disease. I believe that such resources, to be of any service, must be self-evolved in the first instance. I am something of the Quakers mind in this, and am inclined to wait for the spirit.",
  "* Farce may often border on tragedy; indeed, farce is nearer tragedy in its essence than comedy is.",
  "* If a man is not rising upwards to be an angel, depend upon it, he is sinking downwards to be a devil. He cannot stop at the beast. The most savage of men are not beasts; they are worse, a great deal worse.",
  "* Drydens genius was of that sort which catches fire by its own motion; his chariot wheels get hot by driving fast.",
  "* I have known books written on Tolerance, the proper title of which would be \u2014 intolerant or intolerable books on tolerance. Should not a man who writes a book expressly to inculcate tolerance learn to treat with respect, or at least with indulgence, articles of faith which tens of thousands ten times told of his fellow-subjects or his fellow-creatures believe with all their souls, and upon the truth of which they rest their tranquillity in this world, and their hopes of salvation in the next, \u2014 those articles being at least maintainable against his arguments, and most certainly innocent in themselves?",
  "* I am by the law of my nature a reasoner. A person who should suppose I meant by that word, an arguer, would not only not understand me, but would understand the contrary of my meaning. I can take no interest whatever in hearing or saying any thing merely as a fact \u2014 merely as having happened. It must refer to something within me before I can regard it with any curiosity or care. My mind is always energic \u2014 I dont mean energetic; I require in every thing what, for lack of another word, I may call propriety, \u2014 that is, a reason why the thing is at all, and why it is there or then rather than elsewhere or at another time.",
  "* I take unceasing delight in Chaucer. His manly cheerfulness is especially delicious to me in my old age. How exquisitely tender he is, and yet how perfectly free from the least touch of sickly melancholy or morbid drooping! The sympathy of the poet with the subjects of his poetry is particularly remarkable in Shakspeare and Chaucer; but what the first effects by a strong act of imagination and mental metamorphosis, the last does without any effort, merely by the inborn kindly joyousness of his nature. How well we seem to know Chaucer! How absolutely nothing do we know of Shakspeare!",
  "*Those who argue that England may safely depend upon a supply of foreign corn, if it grow none or an insufficient quantity of its own, forget that they are subjugating the necessaries of life itself to the mere luxuries or comforts of society. Is it not certain that the price of corn abroad will be raised upon us as soon as it is once known that we must buy?\u2014and when that fact is known, in what sort of a situation shall we be?",
  "*No state can be such properly, which is not self-subsistent at least; for no state that is not so, is essentially independent. The nation that cannot even exist without the commodity of another nation, is in effect the slave of that other nation.",
  "* I am dying, but without expectation of a speedy release. Is it not strange that very recently by-gone images, and scenes of early life, have stolen into my mind, like breezes blown from the spice-islands of Youth and Hope \u2014 those twin realities of this phantom world! I do not add Love, \u2014 for what is Love but Youth and Hope embracing, and so seen as one? I say realities; for reality is a thing of degrees, from the Iliad to a dream.",
  "* All Nature seems at work. Slugs leave their lair \u2014  The bees are stirring \u2014 birds are on the wing \u2014  And Winter slumbering in the open air,  Wears on his smiling face a dream of Spring!  And I the while, the sole unbusy thing,  Nor honey make, nor pair, nor build, nor sing.",
  "* Bloom, O ye Amaranths! bloom for whom ye may,  For me ye bloom not! Glide, rich streams, away!  With lips unbrightened, wreathless brow, I stroll:  And would you learn the spells that drowse my soul?  Work without Hope draws nectar in a sieve,  And Hope without an object cannot live.",
  "* Unchanged within, to see all changed without,  Is a blank lot and hard to bear, no doubt.  Yet why at others Wanings shouldst thou fret?  Then only mightst thou feel a just regret,  Hadst thou withheld thy love or hid thy light  In selfish forethought of neglect and slight.",
  "* O wiselier then, from feeble yearnings freed,  While, and on whom, thou mayst \u2014 shine on! nor heed  Whether the object by reflected light  Return thy radiance or absorb it quite:  And tho thou notest from thy safe recess  Old Friends burn dim, like lamps in noisome air,  Love them for what they are; nor love them less,  Because to thee they are not what they were.",
  "* I lay too many Eggs in the hot Sands of this Wilderness, the World! with Ostrich Carelessness & Ostrich Oblivion. The greater part, I trust, are trod underfoot, & smashed; but yet no small number crawl forth into Life, some to furnish Feathers for the Caps of others, & still more to plume the Shafts in the Quivers of my Enemies, of them that lie in wait against my Soul. ",
  "* I have often been surprised that Mathematics, the quintessence of Truth, should have found admirers so few and so languid. Frequent consideration and minute scrutiny have at length unravelled the cause: viz. that though Reason is feasted, Imagination is starved; whilst Reason is luxuriating in its proper Paradise, Imagination is wearily travelling on a dreary desert.",
  "* My next shall be a more sober & chastised Epistle \u2014 but you see I was in the humour for metaphors \u2014 and to tell thee the Truth, I have so often serious reasons to quarrel with my Inclination, that I do not chuse to contradict it for Trifles.",
  "* Your Sensibilities are tempestuous \u2014 you feel Indignation at Weakness \u2014 Now Indignation is the handsome Brother of Anger & Hatred \u2014 His looks are \"lovely in terror\" \u2014 yet still remember, who are his Relations.",
  "* From my early reading of Faery Tales, & Genii &c &c \u2014 my mind had been habituated to the Vast \u2014 & I never regarded my senses in any way as the criteria of my belief. I regulated all my creeds by my conceptions not by my sight \u2014 even at that age. Should children be permitted to read Romances, & Relations of Giants & Magicians, & Genii? \u2014 I know all that has been said against it; but I have formed my faith in the affirmative. \u2014 I know no other way of giving the mind a love of \"the Great,\" & \"the Whole.\" \u2014 Those who have been led by the same truths step by step thro the constant testimony of their senses, seem to me to want a sense which I possess \u2014 They contemplate nothing but parts \u2014 and all parts are necessarily little \u2014 and the Universe to them is but a mass of little things. It is true, the mind may become credulous and prone to superstition by the former method; \u2014 but are not the experimentalists credulous even to madness in believing any absurdity, rather than believe the grandest truths, if they have not the testimony of their own senses in their favor? I have known some who have been rationally educated, as it is styled. They were marked by a microscopic acuteness; but when they looked at great things, all became a blank, and they saw nothing, and denied that any thing could be seen, and uniformly put the negative of a power for the possession of a power, and called the want of imagination judgment, and the never being moved to rapture philosophy.",
  "* I shall attack Chemistry, like a Shark.",
  "* God knows, it is as much as I can do to put meat and bread on my own table; & hourly some poor starving wretch comes to my door, to put in his claim for a part of it.",
  "* Metaphisics is a word that you, my dear Sir! are no great friend to / but yet you will agree, that a great Poet must be, implicit\u00e8 if not explicit\u00e8, a profound Metaphysician. He may not have it in logical coherence, in his Brain & Tongue; but he must have it by Tact / for all sounds, & all forms of human nature he must have the ear of a wild Arab listening in the silent Desart, the eye of a North American Indian tracing the footsteps of an Enemy upon the Leaves that strew the Forest \u2014 ; the Touch of a Blind Man feeling the face of a darling Child.",
  "* But metre itself implies a passion, i.e. a state of excitement, both in the Poets mind, & is expected in that of the Reader.",
  "* Never to see or describe any interesting appearance in nature, without connecting it by dim analogies with the moral world, proves faintness of Impression. Nature has her proper interest; & he will know what it is, who believes & feels, that every Thing has a life of its own, & that we are all one Life.",
  "* He has no native Passion, because he is not a Thinker \u2014 & has probably weakened his Intellect by the haunting Fear of becoming extravagant.",
  "* Moral obligation is to me so very strong a Stimulant, that in 9 cases out of ten it acts as a Narcotic. The Blow that should rouse, stuns me.",
  "* The age seems sore from excess of stimulation, just as a day or two after a thorough Debauch and long sustained Drinking-match a man feels all over like a Bruise. Even to admire otherwise than on the whole and where \"I admire\" is but a synonyme for \"I remember, I liked it very much when I was reading it,\" is too much an effort, would be too disquieting an emotion!",
  "* It is a flatning Thought, that the more we have seen, the less we have to say.",
  "* Nature is a wary wily long-breathed old Witch, tough-lived as a Turtle and divisible as the Polyp, repullulative in a thousand Snips and Cuttings, integra et in toto! She is sure to get the better of Lady MIND in the long run, and to take her revenge too \u2014 transforms our To Day into a Canvass dead-colored to receive the dull featureless Portait of Yesterday.",
  "* How many of our virtues originate in the fear of Death \u2014 & that while we flatter ourselves that we are melting in Christian Sensibility over the sorrows of our human Brethren and Sisteren, we are in fact, tho perhaps unconsciously, moved at the prospect of our own End \u2014 for who sincerely pities Sea-sickness, Toothache, or a fit of the Gout in a lusty Good-liver of 50?",
  "* Summer has set in with his usual severity.",
  "* Earth with her thousand voices praises God.",
  "* Ere sin could blight or sorrow fade,Death came with friendly care;The opening bud to heaven conveyed,And bade it blossom there.",
  "* Yes, while I stood and gazed, my temples bare,And shot my being through earth, sea, and air,Possessing all things with intensest love,O Liberty! my spirit felt thee there.",
  "* A charmFor thee, my gentle-hearted Charles, to whomNo sound is dissonant which tells of life.",
  "* Tranquillity! thou better nameThan all the family of Fame.",
  "* A mother is a mother still,The holiest thing alive.",
  "* Never, believe me,Appear the Immortals,Never alone.",
  "* Joy rises in me, like a summers morn.",
  "* My eyes make pictures when they are shut.",
  "* To know, to esteem, to love, and then to part,Makes up lifes tale to many a feeling heart!",
  "* I have heard of reasons manifoldWhy Love must needs be blind,But this the best of all I hold,\u2014His eyes are in his mind.",
  "* What outward form and feature areHe guesseth but in part;But what within is good and fairHe seeth with the heart.",
  "* Be that blind bard who on the Chian strand,By those deep sounds possessed with inward light,Beheld the Iliad and the OdysseyRise to the swelling of the voiceful sea.",
  "* I stood in unimaginable tranceAnd agony that cannot be remembered.",
  "* The intelligible forms of ancient poets,The fair humanities of old religion,The power, the beauty, and the majestyThat had their haunts in dale or piny mountain,Or forest by slow stream, or pebbly spring,Or chasms and watery depths,\u2014all these have vanished;They live no longer in the faith of reason.",
  "** Wallenstein, part i, Act ii, scene 6",
  "* Clothing the palpable and familiarWith golden exhalations of the dawn.",
  "* Often do the spiritsOf great events stride on before the events,And in to-day already walks to-morrow.",
  "* An instinctive taste teaches men to build their churches in flat countries, with spire steeples, which, as they cannot be referred to any other object, point as with silent finger to the sky and star.",
  "* And the spring comes slowly up this way.",
  "* A lady richly clad as she,Beautiful exceedingly.",
  "* Carvd with figures strange and sweet,All made out of the carvers brain.",
  "* Each matin bell, the Baron saith,Knells us back to a world of death.",
  "* Her face, oh call it fair, not pale!",
  "* They stood aloof, the scars remaining,\u2014Like cliffs which had been rent asunder:A dreary sea now flows between.",
  "* Perhaps t is pretty to force togetherThoughts so all unlike each other;To mutter and mock a broken charm,To dally with wrong that does no harm.",
  "* Above all things I entreat you to preserve your faith in Christ. It is my wealth in poverty, my joy in sorrow, my peace amid tumult. For all the evil I have committed, my gracious pardon; and for every effort, my exceeding great reward. I have found it to be so. I can smile with pity at the infidel whose vanity makes him dream that I should barter such a blessing for the few subtleties from the school of the cold-blooded sophists."
]