[
  "* How bold one gets when one is sure of being loved.",
  "* Woe to you, my Princess, when I come... you shall see who is the stronger, a gentle girl who doesnt eat enough or a big wild man who has cocaine in his body.",
  "* Princess, my little Princess,  Oh, how wonderful it will be! I am coming with money and staying a long time and bringing something beautiful for you and then go on to Paris and become a great scholar and then come back to Vienna with a huge, enormous halo, and then we will soon get married, and I will cure all the incurable nervous cases and through you I shall be healthy and I will go on kissing you till you are strong and gay and happy \u2014 and \"if they havent died, they are still alive today.\"",
  "* A man like me cannot live without a hobby-horse, a consuming Schillers words a tyrant. I have found my tyrant, and in his service I know no limits. My tyrant is psychology. it has always been my distant, beckoning goal and now since I have hit upon the neuroses, it has come so much the nearer.",
  "* I do not doubt that it would be easier for fate to take away your suffering than it would for me. But you will see for yourself that much has been gained if we succeed in turning your hysterical misery into common unhappiness.",
  "* Being entirely honest with oneself is a good exercise.",
  "* I do not in the least underestimate bisexuality. . . I expect it to provide all further enlightenment.",
  "* In the following pages, I shall demonstrate that there exists a psychological technique by which dreams may be interpreted and that upon the application of this method every dream will show itself to be a senseful psychological structure which may be introduced into an assignable place in the psychic activity of the waking state. I shall furthermore endeavor to explain the processes which give rise to the strangeness and obscurity of the dream, and to discover through them the psychic forces, which operate whether in combination or opposition, to produce the dream. This accomplished by investigation will terminate as it will reach the point where the problem of the dream meets broader problems, the solution of which must be attempted through other material.",
  "* I am actually not at all a man of science, not an observer, not an experimenter, not a thinker. I am by temperament nothing but a conquistador \u2014 an adventurer, if you want it translated \u2014 with all the curiosity, daring, and tenacity characteristic of a man of this sort.",
  "* The interpretation of dreams is the royal road to a knowledge of the unconscious activities of the mind.",
  "* And now, the main thing! As far as I can see, my next work will be called \"Human Bisexuality.\" It will go to the root of the problem and say the last word it may be granted to say \u2014 the last and the most profound.",
  "* No one who, like me, conjures up the most evil of those half-tamed demons that inhabit the human beast, and seeks to wrestle with them, can expect to come through the struggle unscathed.",
  "* He that has eyes to see and ears to hear may convince himself that no mortal can keep a secret. If his lips are silent, he chatters with his fingertips; betrayal oozes out of him at every pore.",
  "* A person who feels pleasure in producing pain in someone else in a sexual relationship is also capable of enjoying as pleasure any pain which he may himself derive from sexual relations. A sadist is always at the same time a masochist.",
  "* Psychoanalysis is in essence a cure through love.",
  "* Moreover, the act of birth is the first experience of anxiety, and thus the source and prototype of the affect of anxiety.",
  "* We have long observed that every neurosis has the result, and therefore probably the purpose, of forcing the patient out of real life, of alienating him from actuality.",
  "* The virtuous man contents himself with dreaming that which the wicked man does in actual life.",
  "* Conscience is the internal perception of the rejection of a particular wish operating within us.",
  "* At bottom God is nothing more than an exalted father.",
  "* Psychoanalysis ... should find a place among the methods whose aim is to bring about the highest ethical and intellectual development of the individual.",
  "* The psychic development of the individual is a short repetition of the course of development of the race.",
  "* The ego is not master in its own house.",
  "** Eine Kindheitserinnerung aus \u00bbDichtung und Wahrheit\u00ab, first published in the journal Imago, vol. 5 issue 2 (1917), [http://books.google.com/books?id=05FXAAAAMAAJ&q=Eroberergef%C3%BChl  p. 57 books.google] = http://www.gutenberg.org/files/29946/29946-h/29946-h.htm",
  "* Cruel though it may sound, we must see to it that the patients suffering, to a degree that is in some way or other effective, does not come to an end prematurely. If, owing to the symptoms having been taken apart and having lost their value, his suffering becomes mitigated, we must re-instate it elsewhere in the form of some appreciable privation; otherwise we run the danger of never achieving any improvements except quite insignificant and transitory ones",
  "* We are and remain Jews. The others will only exploit us and will never understand and appreciate us.",
  "* Biology is truly a land of unlimited possibilities. We may expect it to give us the most surprising information, and we cannot guess what answers it will return in a few dozen years. ...They may be of a kind which will blow away the whole of our artificial structure of hypothesis.",
  "* The unconscious is the larger circle which includes within itself the smaller circle of the conscious; everything conscious has its preliminary step in the unconscious, whereas the unconscious may stop with this step and still claim full value as a psychic activity. Properly speaking, the unconscious is the real psychic; its inner nature is just as unknown to us as the reality of the external world, and it is just as imperfectly reported to us through the data of consciousness as is the external world through the indications of our sensory organs.",
  "*The common characteristic of all perversions, on the other hand, is that they have abandoned reproduction as their aim. We term sexual activity perverse when it has renounced the aim of reproduction and follows the pursuit of pleasure as an independent goal. And so you realize that the turning point in the development of sexual life lies in its subjugation to the purpose of reproduction. Everything this side of the turning point, everything that has given up this purpose and serves the pursuit of pleasure alone, must carry the term \"perverse\" and as such be regarded with contempt.",
  "* Cruelty and intolerance to those who do not belong to it are natural to every religion.",
  "* We read in Rabelais of how the Devil took flight when the woman showed him her vulva.",
  "** Whoever loves become humble. Those who love have, so to speak, pawned a part of their narcissism.",
  "* Die Anatomie ist das Schicksal",
  "* When the wayfarer whistles in the dark, he may be disavowing his timidity, but he does not see any more clearly for doing so.",
  "* The poets and philosophers before me discovered the unconscious; what I discovered was the scientific method by which the unconscious can be studied.",
  "* It is easy to see that the ego is that part of the id which has been modified by the direct influence of the external world.",
  "* The ego represents what we call reason and sanity, in contrast to the id which contains the passions.",
  "* The sexual wishes in regard to the mother become more intense and the father is perceived as an obstacle to the mother; this gives rise to the Oedipus complex.",
  "* We obtain our concept of the unconscious, therefore, from the theory of repression \u2026 We see, however that we have two kinds of unconscious \u2014 that which is latent but capable of becoming conscious, and that which is repressed and not capable of becoming conscious in the ordinary way.",
  "* If the truth of religious doctrines is dependent on an inner experience that bears witness to the truth, what is one to make of the many people who do not have that experience?",
  "* The voice of the intellect is a soft one, but it does not rest until it has gained a hearing. Ultimately, after endlessly repeated rebuffs, it succeeds. This is one of the few points in which it may be optimistic about the future of mankind, but in itself it signifies not a little.",
  "** It goes without saying that a civilization which leaves so large a number of its participants unsatisfied and drives them into revolt neither has nor deserves the prospect of a lasting existence.",
  "* Religious ideas have sprung from the same need as all the other achievements of culture: from the necessity for defending itself against the crushing supremacy of nature.",
  "* A poor girl may have an illusion that a prince will come and fetch her home. It is possible, some such cases have occurred. That the Messiah will come and found a golden age is much less probable.",
  "* Religious doctrines \u2026 are all illusions, they do not admit of proof, and no one can be compelled to consider them as true or to believe in them.",
  "* Where the questions of religion are concerned people are guilty of every possible kind of insincerity and intellectual misdemeanor.",
  "* Immorality, no less than morality, has at all times found support in religion.",
  "* Our knowledge of the historical worth of certain religious doctrines increases our respect for them, but does not invalidate our proposal that they should cease to be put forward as the reasons for the precepts of civilization. On the contrary! Those historical residues have helped us to view religious teachings, as it were, as neurotic relics, and we may now argue that the time has probably come, as it does in an analytic treatment, for replacing the effects of repression by the results of the rational operation of the intellect.",
  "* The true believer is in a high degree protected against the danger of certain neurotic afflictions, by accepting the universal neurosis he is spared the task of forming a personal neurosis.",
  "* \"In so doing, the idea forces itself upon him that religion is comparable to a childhood neurosis, and he is optimistic enough to suppose that mankind will surmount this neurotic phase, just as so many children grow out of their similar neurosis.\"",
  "* Religion is a system of wishful illusions together with a disavowal of reality, such as we find nowhere else but in a state of blissful hallucinatory confusion. Religions eleventh commandment is \"Thou shalt not question.\"",
  "* But mans helplessness remains and along with it his longing for his father, and the gods. The gods retain their threefold task: they must exorcise the terrors of nature, they must reconcile men to the cruelty of Fate, particularly as it is shown in death, and they must compensate them for the sufferings and privations which a civilized life in common has imposed on them.",
  "** It is impossible to escape the impression that people commonly use false standards of measurement \u2014 that they seek power, success and wealth for themselves and admire them in others, and that they underestimate what is of true value in life.",
  "* Towards the outside, at any rate, the ego seems to maintain clear and sharp lines of demarcation. There is only one state \u2014 admittedly an unusual state, but not one that can be stigmatized as pathological \u2014 in which it does not do this. At the height of being in love the boundary between ego and object threatens to melt away. Against all the evidence of his senses, a man who is in love declares that \"I\" and \"you\" are one, and is prepared to behave as if it were a fact.",
  "* One feels inclined to say that the intention that man should be \"happy\" is not included in the plan of \"Creation.\"",
  "* Beauty has no obvious use; nor is there any clear cultural necessity for it. Yet civilization could not do without it.",
  "* We are never so defenceless against suffering as when we love.",
  "*The first requisite of civilization, therefore, is that of justice\u2014that is, the assurance that a law once made will not be broken in favour of an individual.",
  "* I cannot inquire into whether the abolition of private property is expedient or advantageous. But I am able to recognize that the psychological premisses on which the [system]] is based are an untenable illusion. In abolishing private property we deprive the human love of aggression of one of its instruments, certainly a strong one, though certainly not the strongest, but we have not altered the differences in power and influence which are misused by aggressiveness, nor have we altered anything in its nature. Aggressiveness was not created by property. It reigned almost without limit in primitive times, when property was still very scanty, and it already shows itself in the nursery almost before property has given up its primal, anal form; it forms the basis of every relation of affection and love among people (with the single exception, perhaps, of the mothers relations to her male child).",
  "* It is always possible to bind together a considerable number of people in love, so long as there are other people left over to receive manifestations of their aggressiveness.",
  "* In some place in my soul, in a very hidden corner, I am a fanatical Jew. I am very much astonished to discover myself as such in spite of all efforts to be unprejudiced and impartial. What can I do against it at my age?",
  "* What progress we are making. In the Middle Ages they would have burned me. Now they are content with burning my books.",
  "* Homosexuality is assuredly no advantage, but it is nothing to be ashamed of, no vice, no degradation, it cannot be classified as an illness.",
  "* A mans heterosexuality will not put up with any homosexuality, and vice versa.",
  "* Every normal person, in fact, is only normal on the average. His ego approximates to that of the psychotic in some part or other and to a greater or lesser extent.",
  "* The Mosaic religion had been a Father religion; Christianity became a Son religion. The old God, the Father, took second place; Christ, the Son, stood in His stead, just as in those dark times every son had longed to do.",
  "* Man found that he was faced with the acceptance of \"spiritual\" forces, that is to say such forces as cannot be comprehended by the senses, particularly not by sight, and yet having undoubted, even extremely strong, effects. If we may trust to language, it was the movement of the air that provided the image of spirituality, since the spirit borrows its name from the breath of wind (animus, spiritus, Hebrew: ruach = smoke). The idea of the soul was thus born as the spiritual principle in the individual. Observation found the breath of air again in the human breath, which ceases with death; even today we talk of a dying man breathing his last. Now the realm of spirits had opened for man, and he was ready to endow everything in nature with the soul he had discovered in himself.",
  "* It often seems that the poets derisive comment is not unjustified when he says of the philosopher: \"With his nightcaps and the tatters of his dressing-gown he patches the gaps in the structure of the universe.\"",
  "* Analogies prove nothing, that is quite true, but they can make one feel more at home.",
  "* The only bodily organ which is really regarded as inferior is the atrophied penis, a girls clitoris.",
  "* One might compare the relation of the ego to the id with that between a rider and his horse. The horse provides the locomotor energy, and the rider has the prerogative of determining the goal and of guiding the movements of his powerful mount towards it. But all too often in the relations between the ego and the id we find a picture of the less ideal situation in which the rider is obliged to guide his horse in the direction in which it itself wants to go.",
  "* The poor ego has a still harder time of it; it has to serve three harsh masters, and it has to do its best to reconcile the claims and demands of all three... The three tyrants are the external world, the superego, and the id.",
  "* Where id is, there shall ego be.",
  "* Thinking is an experimental dealing with small quantities of energy, just as a general moves miniature figures over a map before setting his troops in action.",
  "* If one wishes to form a true estimate of the full grandeur of religion, one must keep in mind what it undertakes to do for men. It gives them information about the source and origin of the universe, it assures them of protection and final happiness amid the changing vicissitudes of life, and it guides their thoughts and motions by means of precepts which are backed by the whole force of its authority.",
  "* Religion is an attempt to get control over the sensory world, in which we are placed, by means of the wish-world, which we have developed inside us as a result of biological and psychological necessities.",
  "* Religion is an illusion and it derives its strength from the fact that it falls in with our instinctual desires.",
  "* The expectation that every neurotic phenomenon can be cured may, I suspect, be derived from the laymans belief that the neuroses are something quite unnecessary which have no right whatever to exist. Whereas in fact they are severe, constitutionally fixed illnesses, which rarely restrict themselves to only a few attacks but persist as a rule over long periods throughout life.",
  "* The conscious mind may be compared to a fountain playing in the sun and falling back into the great subterranean pool of subconscious from which it rises.",
  "* ...three of lifes most important areas: work, love, and taking responsibility.",
  "** What does a woman want?",
  "* America is a mistake, admittedly a gigantic mistake, but a mistake nevertheless.",
  "* A certain degree of neurosis is of inestimable value as a drive, especially to a psychologist.",
  "* I have found little that is \"good\" about human beings on the whole. In my experience most of them are trash, no matter whether they publicly subscribe to this or that ethical doctrine or to none at all. That is something that you cannot say aloud or perhaps even think. ",
  "* Everywhere I go I find that a poet has been there before me. ",
  "* Dogs love their friends and bite their enemies, quite unlike people, who are incapable of pure love and always have to mix love and hate in their object-relations.",
  "* I dont rack my brains much over the subject of good and evil, but, on average, I havent discovered much good in men. Based on what I know of them, they are for the most part nothing but scoundrels. ",
  "* A fear of weapons is a sign of retarded sexual and emotional maturity.",
  "* Sometimes a Cigar Is Just a Cigar.",
  "* This is one race of people for whom psychoanalysis is of no use whatsoever.",
  "* Time spent with cats is never wasted.",
  "* The idea of a God was not a lie but a device of the unconscious which needed to be decoded by psychology. A personal god was nothing more than an exalted father-figure: desire for such a deity sprang from infantile yearnings for a powerful, protective father, for justice and fairness and for life to go on forever. God is simply a projection of these desires, feared and worshiped by human beings out of an abiding sense of helplessness. Religion belonged to the infancy of the human race; it had been a necessary stage in the transition from childhood to maturity. It had promoted ethical values which were essential to society. Now that humanity had come of age, however, it should be left behind.",
  "* The mind is like an iceberg.",
  "* Women oppose change, receive passively, and add nothing of their own"
]