[
  "*I am tired with my own life and the lives of those after me.",
  "* I am moved by fancies that are curled  Around these images, and cling:  The notion of some infinitely gentle  Infinitely suffering thing.",
  "* Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal; bad poets deface what they take, and good poets make it into something better, or at least something different.",
  "* Atheism should always be encouraged (i.e. rationalistic not emotional atheism) for the sake of the Faith.",
  "* Mr. Aldous Huxley, who is perhaps one of those people who have to perpetrate thirty bad novels before producing a good one, has a certain natural \u2014 but little developed \u2014 aptitude for seriousness.",
  "* A dangerous person to disagree with.",
  "* It is a test (a positive test, I do not assert that it is always valid negatively), that genuine poetry can communicate before it is understood.",
  "* I am glad you have a Cat, but I do not believe it is So remarkable a cat as My Cat. My Cat is a Lilliecat Hubvously. What a lilliecat it is. There never was such a Lilliecat. Its Name is JELLYORUM and its one Idea is to be Usefull!!",
  "* Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.",
  "* It is self-evident that St. Louis affected me more deeply than any other environment has ever done. I feel that there is something in having passed ones childhood beside the big river, which is incommunicable to those people who have not. I consider myself fortunate to have been born here, rather than in Boston, or New York, or London.",
  "* When we read of human beings behaving in certain ways, with the approval of the author, who gives his benediction to this behavior by his attitude towards the result of the behavior arranged by himself, we can be influenced towards behaving in the same way.",
  "* It is certain that a book is not harmless merely because no one is consciously offended by it.",
  "* No verse is free for the man who wants to do a good job....Poetry..remains one person talking to another....no poet can write a poem of amplitude unless he is the master of the prosaic.",
  "* The years between fifty and seventy are the hardest. You are always being asked to do more, and you are not yet decrepit enough to turn them down.",
  "* The majority of mankind is lazy-minded, incurious, absorbed in vanities, and tepid in emotion, and is therefore incapable of either much doubt or much faith; and when the ordinary man calls himself a sceptic or an unbeliever, that is ordinarily a simple pose, cloaking a disinclination to think anything out to a conclusion.",
  "*Fortunate the man who, at the right moment meets the right friend; fortunate also the man who at the right moment meets the right enemy. I do not approve the extermination of the enemy; the policy of exterminating or, as it is barbarously said, liquidating enemies, is one of the most alarming developments of modern war and peace, from the point of view of those who desire the survival of culture. One needs the enemy... A country within which the divisions have goon too far is a danger to itself: a country which is too well united - whether by nature or by device, by hounest purpose or by fraud and oppression - is a menace to others.",
  "*Long ago I studied the ancient Indian languages, and while I was chiefly interested at that time in philosophy, I read a little poetry too; and I know that my own poetry shows the influence of Indian thought and sensibility.",
  "* Let us go then, you and I,  When the evening is spread out against the sky  Like a patient etherized upon a table.",
  "* In the room the women come and go  Talking of Michelangelo.",
  "* There will be time, there will be time  To prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet;  There will be time to murder and create,  And time for all the works and days of hands,  That lift and drop a question on your plate;  Time for you and time for me,  And time yet for a hundred indecisions,  And for a hundred visions and revisions,  Before the taking of a toast and tea.",
  "* Do I dare  Disturb the universe?  In a minute there is time  For decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse.  For I have known them all already, known them all: \u2014  Have known the evenings, mornings, afternoons,  I have measured out my life with coffee spoons;  I know the voices dying with a dying fall  Beneath the music from a farther room.",
  "* And I have known the eyes already, known them all \u2014  The eyes that fix you in a formulated phrase,  And when I am formulated, sprawling on a pin,  When I am pinned and wriggling on the wall,  Then how should I begin  To spit out all the butt-ends of my days and ways?",
  "* And I have known the arms already, known them all \u2014  Arms that are braceleted and white and bare  [But in the lamplight, downed with light brown hair!]  It is perfume from a dress  That makes me so digress?  Arms that lie along a table, or wrap about a shawl.  And should I then presume?",
  "* I am no prophet \u2014 and heres no great matter;  I have seen the moment of my greatness flicker,  And I have seen the eternal Footman hold my coat, and snicker,  And in short, I was afraid.",
  "* It is impossible to say just what I mean!  But as if a magic lantern threw the nerves in patterns on a screen:  Would it have been worth while If one, settling a  Pillow or throwing off a shawl,  And turning toward the window, should say:  \"That is not it at all,  That is not what I meant, at all.\"",
  "* No! I am not Prince Hamlet, nor was meant to be;  Am an attendant lord, one that will do  To swell a progress, start a scene or two,  Advise the prince; no doubt, an easy tool,  Deferential, glad to be of use,  Politic, cautious, and meticulous;  Full of high sentence, but a bit obtuse;  At times, indeed, almost ridiculous \u2014  Almost, at times, the Fool.",
  "* I grow old ... I grow old ...  I shall wear the bottoms of my trousers rolled.  Shall I part my hair behind? Do I dare to eat a peach?  I shall wear white flannel trousers, and walk upon the beach.  I have heard the mermaids singing, each to each.  I do not think that they will sing to me.  I have seen them riding seaward on the waves  Combing the white hair of the waves blown back  When the wind blows the water white and black.  We have lingered in the chambers of the sea  By sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brown  Till human voices wake us, and we drown.",
  "* We dwell with satisfaction upon the poets difference from his predecessors, especially his immediate predecessors; we endeavour to find something that can be isolated in order to be enjoyed. Whereas if we approach a poet without this prejudice we shall often find that not only the best, but the most individual parts of his work may be those in which the dead poets, his ancestors, assert their immortality most vigorously. And I do not mean the impressionable period of adolescence, but the period of full maturity.",
  "* Yet if the only form of tradition, of handing down, consisted in following the ways of the immediate generation before us in a blind or timid adherence to its successes, \"tradition\" should positively be discouraged. We have seen many such simple currents soon lost in the sand; and novelty is better than repetition. Tradition is a matter of much wider significance. It cannot be inherited, and if you want it you must obtain it by great labour. It involves, in the first place, the historical sense, which we may call nearly indispensable to anyone who would continue to be a poet beyond his twenty-fifth year...",
  "* The historical sense involves a perception, not only of the pastness of the past, but of its presence; the historical sense compels a man to write not merely with his own generation in his bones, but with a feeling that the whole of the literature of Europe from Homer and within it the whole of the literature of his own country has a simultaneous existence and composes a simultaneous order. This historical sense, which is a sense of the timeless as well as of the temporal and of the timeless and of the temporal together, is what makes a writer traditional. And it is at the same time what makes a writer most acutely conscious of his place in time, of his contemporaneity.",
  "* No poet, no artist of any art, has his complete meaning alone. His significance, his appreciation is the appreciation of his relation to the dead poets and artists. You cannot value him alone; you must set him, for contrast and comparison, among the dead. I mean this as a principle of \u00e6sthetic, not merely historical, criticism.",
  "* What happens when a new work of art is created, is something that happens simultaneously to all the works of art which preceded it. The existing monuments form an ideal order among themselves, which is modified by the introduction of the new (the really new) work of art among them. The existing order is complete before the new work arrives; for order to persist after the supervention of novelty, the whole existing order must be, if ever so slightly, altered; and so the relations, proportions, values of each work of art toward the whole are readjusted; and this is conformity between the old and the new.",
  "* Whoever has approved this idea of order, of the form of European, of English literature, will not find it preposterous that the past should be altered by the present as much as the present is directed by the past. And the poet who is aware of this will be aware of great difficulties and responsibilities.",
  "* Some one said: \"The dead writers are remote from us because we know so much more than they did.\" Precisely, and they are that which we know.",
  "* What happens is a continual surrender of himself as he is at the moment to something which is more valuable. The progress of an artist is a continual self-sacrifice, a continual extinction of personality.",
  "* It is not the \"greatness,\" the intensity, of the emotions, the components, but the intensity of the artistic process, the pressure, so to speak, under which the fusion takes place, that counts.",
  "* The bad poet is usually unconscious where he ought to be conscious, and conscious where he ought to be unconscious. Both errors tend to make him \"personal.\" Poetry is not a turning loose of emotion, but an escape from emotion; it is not the expression of personality, but an escape from personality. But, of course, only those who have personality and emotions know what it means to want to escape from these things.",
  "* Here I am, an old man in a dry month,  Being read to by a boy, waiting for rain.",
  "* Signs are taken for wonders. \"We would see a sign!\"  The word within a word, unable to speak a word,  Swaddled with darkness.",
  "* Weave the wind. I have no ghosts,  An old man in a draughty house  Under a windy knob.",
  "* After such knowledge, what forgiveness? Think now  History has many cunning passages, contrived corridors  And issues, deceives with whispering ambitions,  Guides us by vanities. Think now  She gives when our attention is distracted  And what she gives, gives with such supple confusions  That the giving famishes the craving. Gives too late  Whats not believed in, or if still believed,  In memory only, reconsidered passion. Gives too soon  Into weak hands, whats thought can be dispensed with  Till the refusal propagates a fear. Think  Neither fear nor courage saves us. Unnatural vices  Are fathered by our heroism. Virtues  Are forced upon us by our impudent crimes.  These tears are shaken from the wrath-bearing tree.",
  "* The tiger springs in the new year. Us he devours. Think at last  We have not reached conclusion, when I  Stiffen in a rented house. Think at last  I have not made this show purposelessly  And it is not by any concitation  Of the backward devils.  I would meet you upon this honestly.  I that was near your heart was removed therefrom  To lose beauty in terror, terror in inquisition.  I have lost my passion: why should I need to keep it  Since what is kept must be adulterated?",
  "* so the countess passed on until she came through the little park, where Niobe presented her with a cabinet, and so departed.",
  "* The broad-backed hippopotamus  Rests on his belly in the mud;  Although he seems so firm to us  He is merely flesh and blood.",
  "* Webster was much possessed by death  And saw the skull beneath the skin",
  "* Grishkin is nice: her  Russian eye is underlined for emphasis;  Uncorseted, her friendly bust  Gives promise of pneumatic bliss.",
  "* April is the cruellest month, breeding  Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing  Memory and desire, stirring  Dull roots with spring rain.",
  "* There is shadow under this red rock  (Come in under the shadow of this red rock),  And I will show you something different from either  Your shadow at morning striding behind you  Or your shadow at evening rising to meet you;  I will show you fear in a handful of dust.",
  "* I was neither  Living nor dead, and I knew nothing,  Looking into the heart of light, the silence.",
  "* Unreal city,  Under the brown fog of a winter dawn,  A crowd flowed over London Bridge, so many,  I had not thought death had undone so many.",
  "* O O O O that Shakespeherian Rag\u2014  Its so elegant  So intelligent",
  "* O you who turn the wheel and look to windward,  Consider Phlebas, who was once handsome and tall as you.",
  "* Who is the third who walks always beside you  When I count, there are only you and I together  But when I look ahead up the white road  There is always another one walking beside you",
  "* What is that sound high in the air  Murmur of maternal lamentation  Who are those hooded hordes swarming  Over endless plains, stumbling in cracked earth  Ringed by the flat horizon only  What is the city over the mountains  Cracks and reforms and bursts in the violet air  Falling towers  Jerusalem Athens Alexandria  Vienna London  Unreal",
  "* In this decayed hole among the mountainsIn the faint moonlight, the grass is singingOver the tumbled graves, about the chapelThere is the empty chapel, only the winds home.",
  "* Then spoke the thunder  DA  Datta: what have we given?  My friend, blood shaking my heart  The awful daring of a moments surrender  Which an age of prudence can never retract  By this, and this only, we have existed.",
  "* I have heard the key  Turn in the door once and turn once only  We think of the key, each in his prison  Thinking of the key, each confirms a prison.",
  "** The final lines of the poem.",
  "** A quotation from Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad",
  "* A penny for the Old Guy",
  "* We are the hollow men  We are the stuffed men  Leaning together  Headpiece filled with straw.",
  "* Those who have crossed  With direct eyes, to deaths other Kingdom  Remember us \u2014 if at all \u2014 not as lost  Violent souls, but only  As the hollow men  The stuffed men.",
  "* Eyes I dare not meet in dreams  In deaths dream kingdom\u00b4  These do not appear:  There, the eyes are  Sunlight on a broken column  There, is a tree swinging  And voices are  In the winds singing  More distant and more solemn  Than a fading star.",
  "* This is the dead land  This is cactus land  Here the stone images  Are raised, here they receive  The supplication of a dead mans hand  Under the twinkle of a fading star.  [...]  The eyes are not here  There are no eyes here  In this valley of dying stars  In this hollow valley  This broken jaw of our lost kingdoms  [http://aduni.org/~heather/occs/honors/Notesonpoem.htm#fiftysevensixty In this last of meeting places  We grope together  And avoid speech  ]Gathered on this beach of the tumid river  [http://aduni.org/~heather/occs/honors/Notesonpoem.htm#sixtyonesixtytwo Sightless, unless  The eyes reappear]  [http://aduni.org/~heather/occs/honors/Notesonpoem.htm#sixtyfoursixtythree As the perpetual star  Multifoliate rose]  Of deaths twilight kingdom  The hope only  Of empty men.",
  "* Between the idea  And the reality  Between the motion  And the act  Falls the Shadow",
  "* Between the conception  And the creation  Between the emotion  And the response  Falls the Shadow",
  "* Between the desire  And the spasm  Between the potency  And the existence  Between the essence  And the descent  Falls the Shadow .",
  "* This is the way the world ends  This is the way the world ends  This is the way the world ends  Not with a bang but a whimper.",
  "* Because I do not hope to turn again  Because I do not hope  Because I do not hope to turn  Desiring this mans gift and that mans scope  I no longer strive to strive towards such things  (Why should the ag\u00e8d eagle stretch its wings?)  Why should I mourn  The vanished power of the usual reign?",
  "* Because I do not hope to know  The infirm glory of the positive hour  Because I do not think  Because I know I shall not know  The one veritable transitory power  Because I cannot drink  There, where trees flower, and springs flow, for there is nothing again",
  "* Because I know that time is always time  And place is always and only place  And what is actual is actual only for one time  And only for one place  I rejoice that things are as they are and  I renounce the bless\u00e8d face",
  "* Because I cannot hope to turn again  Consequently I rejoice, having to construct something  Upon which to rejoice",
  "* Let these words answer  For what is done, not to be done again  May the judgement not be too heavy upon us",
  "* Because these wings are no longer wings to fly  But merely vans to beat the air  The air which is now thoroughly small and dry  Smaller and dryer than the will  Teach us to care and not to care  Teach us to sit still.  Pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death  Pray for us now and at the hour of our death.",
  "* Prophesy to the wind, to the wind only for only  The wind will listen.",
  "* Lady of silences  Calm and distressed  Torn and most whole  Rose of memory  Rose of forgetfulness  Exhausted and life-giving  Worried reposeful  The single Rose  Is now the Garden  Where all loves end   Terminate torment  Of love unsatisfied  The greater torment  Of love satisfied  End of the endless  Journey to no end  Conclusion of all that  Is inconclusible  Speech without word and  Word of no speech  Grace to the Mother  For the Garden  Where all love ends.",
  "* This is the land which ye  Shall divide by lot. And neither division nor unity  Matters. This is the land. We have our inheritance.",
  "* Redeem  The time. Redeem  The unread vision in the higher dream  While jewelled unicorns draw by the gilded hearse.",
  "* If the lost word is lost, if the spent word is spent  If the unheard, unspoken  Word is unspoken, unheard;  Still is the unspoken word, the Word unheard,  The Word without a word, the Word within  The world and for the world;  And the light shone in darkness and  Against the Word the unstilled world still whirled  About the centre of the silent Word.   O my people, what have I done unto thee.   Where shall the word be found, where will the word  Resound? Not here, there is not enough silence",
  "* Wavering between the profit and the loss  In this brief transit where the dreams cross  The dreamcrossed twilight between birth and dying",
  "* And the lost heart stiffens and rejoices  In the lost lilac and the lost sea voices  And the weak spirit quickens to rebel  For the bent golden-rod and the lost sea smell  Quickens to recover  The cry of quail and the whirling plover  And the blind eye creates  The empty forms between the ivory gates  And smell renews the salt savour of the sandy earth  This is the time of tension between dying and birth  The place of solitude where three dreams cross  Between blue rocks   But when the voices shaken from the yew-tree drift away  Let the other yew be shaken and reply.",
  "* Blessed sister, holy mother, spirit of the fountain, spirit of the garden,  Suffer us not to mock ourselves with falsehood  Teach us to care and not to care",
  "* Sister, mother  And spirit of the river, spirit of the sea,  Suffer me not to be separated  And let my cry come unto Thee.",
  "* The Eagle soars in the summit of Heaven,  The Hunter with his dogs pursues his circuit.",
  "* O perpetual revolution of configured The Word.  All our knowledge brings us nearer to our ignorance,  All our ignorance brings us nearer to death,  But nearness to death no nearer to God.  Where is the Life we have lost in living?  Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge?  Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?  The cycles of Heaven in twenty centuries  Brings us farther from God and nearer to the Dust.",
  "* The lot of man is ceaseless labor,  Or ceaseless idleness, which is still harder,  Or irregular labour, which is not pleasant.  I have trodden the winepress alone, and I know  That it is hard to be really useful, resigning  The things that men count for happiness, seeking  The good deeds that lead to obscurity, accepting  With equal face those that bring ignominy,  The applause of all or the love of none.  All men are ready to invest their money  But most expect dividends.  I say to you: Make perfect your will.  I say: take no thought of the harvest,  But only of proper sowing.",
  "* The world turns and the world changes,  But one thing does not change.  In all of my years, one thing does not change,  However you disguise it, this thing does not change:  The perpetual struggle of Good and Evil.",
  "* You neglect and belittle the desert.  The desert is not remote in southern tropics  The desert is not only around the corner,  The desert is squeezed in the tube-train next to you,  The desert is in the heart of your brother.",
  "* Let me show you the work of the humble. Listen.",
  "* In the vacant places  We will build with new bricks",
  "* Where the bricks are fallen  We will build with new stone  Where the beams are rotten  We will build with new timbers  Where the word is unspoken  We will build with new speech  There is work together  A Church for all  And a job for each  Every man to his work.",
  "* What life have you, if you have not life together?  There is not life that is not in community,  And no community not lived in praise of GOD.",
  "* And now you live dispersed on ribbon roads,  And no man knows or cares who is his neighbor  Unless his neighbor makes too much disturbance,  But all dash to and fro in motor cars,  Familiar with the roads and settled nowhere.",
  "* Much to cast down, much to build, much to restore.",
  "* I have given you the power of choice, and you only alternate  Between futile speculation and unconsidered action.",
  "* And the wind shall say: \"Here were decent godless people:  Their only monument the asphalt road  And a thousand lost golf balls.\" ",
  "* When the Stranger says: \"What is the meaning of this city ?  Do you huddle close together because you love each other?\"  What will you answer? \"We all dwell together  To make money from each other\"? or \"This is a community\"?",
  "* Oh my soul, be prepared for the coming of the Stranger.  Be prepared for him who knows how to ask questions.",
  "* There is one who remembers the way to your door:  Life you may evade, but Death you shall not.  You shall not deny the Stranger.",
  "* They constantly try to escape  From the darkness outside and within  By dreaming of systems so perfect that no one will need to be good.  But the man that is shall shadow  The man that pretends to be.",
  "* Then it seemed as if men must proceed from light to light, in the light of the Word,  Through the Passion and Sacrifice saved in spite of their negative being;  Bestial as always before, carnal, self seeking as always before, selfish and purblind as ever before,  Yet always struggling, always reaffirming,always resuming their march on the way that was lit by the light;  Often halting, loitering, straying, delaying, returning, yet following no other way.",
  "* But it seems that something has happened that has never happened before: though we know not just when, or why, or how, or where.  Men have left GOD not for other gods, they say, but for no God; and this has never happened before  That men both deny gods and worship gods, professing first Reason,  And then Money, and Power, and what they call Life, or Race, or Dialectic.",
  "* What have we to do but stand with empty hands and palms turned upwards in an age which advances progressively backwards?",
  "* There came one who spoke of the shame of Jerusalem  And the holy places defiled;  Peter the Hermit, scourging with words.  And among his hearers were a few good men,  Many who were evil,  And most who were neither,  Like all men in all places.",
  "* In spite of all the dishonour,  the broken standards, the broken lives,  The broken faith in one place or another,  There was something left that was more than the tales  Of old men on winter evenings.",
  "* Our age is an age of moderate virtue  And moderate vice",
  "* The soul of Man must quicken to creation.",
  "* Out of the meaningless practical shapes of all that is living or lifeless  Joined with the artists eye, new life, new form, new colour.  Out of the sea of sound the life of music,  Out of the slimy mud of words, out of the sleet and hail of verbal imprecisions,  Approximate thoughts and feelings, words that have taken the place of thoughts and feelings,  There spring the perfect order of speech, and the beauty of incantation.",
  "* The work of creation is never without travail",
  "* Light  Light  The visible reminder of Invisible Light.",
  "* O Light Invisible, we praise Thee!  Too bright for mortal vision.",
  "* We see the light but see not whence it comes.  O Light Invisible, we glorify Thee!",
  "* The Naming of Cats is a difficult matter,  It isnt just one of your holiday games;  You may think at first Im as mad as a hatter  When I tell you, a cat must have THREE DIFFERENT NAMES.",
  "* When the days hustle and bustle is done,  Then the Gumbie Cats work is but hardly begun.",
  "* Yes the Rum Tum Tugger is a Curious Cat \u2014  And there isnt any call for me to shout it:  For he will do  As he do do  And theres no doing anything about it!",
  "* Jellicle Cats come out tonight,  Jellicle Cats come one come all:  The Jellicle Moon is shining bright \u2014  Jellicles come to the Jellicle Ball.",
  "* Old Deuteronomys lived a long time;  Hes a Cat who has lived many lives in succession.  He was famous in proverb and famous in rhyme  A long while before Queen Victorias accession.",
  "* And we all say: OH!  Well I never!  Was there ever  A Cat so clever  As Magical Mr. Mistoffelees!",
  "* Hes the bafflement of Scotland Yard, the Flying Squads despair:  For when they reach the scene of crime \u2014 Macavitys not there!",
  "* Macavity, Macavity, theres no one like Macavity,  Hes broken every human law, he breaks the law of gravity.",
  "* He always has an alibi, and one or two to spare:  At whatever time the deed took place-  Macavity wasnt there.",
  "* Macavity, Macavity, theres no one like Macavity,  For hes a fiend in feline shape, a monster of depravity.  You may meet him in a by-street, you may see him in the square \u2014  But when a crimes discovered, then Macavitys not there!",
  "* They say that all the Cats whose wicked deeds are widely known  (I might mention Mungojerrie, I might mention Griddlebone)  Are nothing more than agents for the Cat who all the time  Just controls their operations: the Napoleon of Crime!",
  "* These modern productions are all very well,  But theres nothing to equal, from what I hear tell,  That moment of mystery  When I made history  As Firefrorefiddle, the Fiend of the Fell.",
  "* You now have learned enough to see  That Cats are much like you and me  And other people whom we find  Possessed of various types of mind.  For some are sane and some are mad  And some are good and some are bad  And some are better, some are worse \u2014  But all may be described in verse."
]