[
  "** Sing, my tongue, the Saviors glory,Of His Flesh the mystery sing;Of the Blood, all price exceeding,Shed by our immortal King.",
  "* Down in adoration falling,Lo! the sacred Host we hail;Lo! oer ancient forms departing,Newer rites of grace prevail;Faith for all defects supplying,Where the feeble senses fail.",
  "* Thus Angels Bread is madeThe Bread of man today:The Living Bread from HeavenWith figures doth away:O wondrous gift indeed!The poor and lowly mayUpon their Lord and Master feed.",
  "* O saving Victim, opening wideThe gate of heaven to man below,Our foes press on from every side,Thine aid supply, Thy strength bestow.",
  "* Anything done against faith or conscience is sinful.",
  "* Reason in man is rather like God in the world.",
  "* Charity, by which God and neighbor are loved, is the most perfect friendship.",
  "* It must be said that charity can, in no way, exist along with mortal sin.",
  "* The reason, however, why the philosopher may be likened to the poet is this: both are concerned with the marvellous.",
  "* If \u2026 the motion of the earth were circular, it would be violent and contrary to nature, and could not be eternal, since \u2026 nothing violent is eternal.\u2026 It follows, therefore, that the earth is not moved with a circular motion.",
  "* A hymn is the praise of God with song; a song is the exultation of the mind dwelling on eternal things, bursting forth in the voice.",
  "** [https://mondodomani.org/dialegesthai/articoli/claudio-fiorillo-01 Processus, n. 79, 376]",
  "* The order of authority derives from God, as the Apostle says &#91;in Romans 13:1-7&#93;. For this reason, the duty of obedience is, for the Christian, a consequence of this derivation of authority from God, and ceases when that ceases. But, as we have already said, authority may fail to derive from God for two reasons: either because of the way in which authority has been obtained, or in consequence of the use which is made of it. There are two ways in which the first may occur. Either because of a defect in the person, if he is unworthy; or because of some defect in the way itself by which power was acquired, if, for example, through violence, or simony or some other illegal method.",
  "* With regard to the abuse of authority, this also may come about in two ways. First, when what is ordered by an authority is opposed to the object for which that authority was constituted (if, for example, some sinful action is commanded or one which is contrary to virtue, when it is precisely for the protection and fostering of virtue that authority is instituted). In such a case, not only is there no obligation to obey the authority, but one is obliged to disobey it, as did the holy martyrs who suffered death rather than obey the impious commands of tyrants. Secondly, when those who bear such authority command things which exceed the competence of such authority; as, for example, when a master demands payment from a servant which the latter is not bound to make, and other similar cases. In this instance the subject is free to obey or disobey.",
  "** Trans. J.G. Dawson (Oxford, 1959), 44, 2 in O\u2019Donovan, pp. 329-30",
  "* The greatness of the human being consists in this: that it is capable of the universe.",
  "* Nothing is in the intellect that was not first in the senses.",
  "* We can open our hearts to God, but only with Divine help.",
  "* Truth is the ultimate end of the whole universe.",
  "* Muhammad seduced the people by promises of carnal pleasure to which the concupiscence of the flesh goads us. His teaching also contained precepts that were in conformity with his promises, and he gave free rein to carnal pleasure. In all this, as is not unexpected, he was obeyed by carnal men. As for proofs of the truth of his doctrine, he brought forward only such as could be grasped by the natural ability of anyone with a very modest wisdom. Indeed, the truths that he taught he mingled with many fables and with doctrines of the greatest falsity. He did not bring forth any signs produced in a supernatural way, which alone fittingly gives witness to divine inspiration; for a visible action that can be only divine reveals an invisibly inspired teacher of truth. On the contrary, Muhammad said that he was sent in the power of his arms\u2014which are signs not lacking even to robbers and tyrants. What is more, no wise men, men trained in things divine and human, believed in him from the beginning, Those who believed in him were brutal men and desert wanderers, utterly ignorant of all divine teaching, through whose numbers Muhammad forced others to become his followers by the violence of his arms. Nor do divine pronouncements on the part of preceding prophets offer him any witness. On the contrary, he perverts almost all the testimonies of the Old and New Testaments by making them into fabrications of his own, as can be seen by anyone who examines his law. It was, therefore, a shrewd decision on his part to forbid his followers to read the Old and New Testaments, lest these books convict him of falsity. It is thus clear that those who place any faith in his words believe foolishly.",
  "* For creation is not a change, but that dependence of the created existence on the principle from which it is instituted, and thus is of the genus of relation; whence nothing prohibits it being in the created as in the subject. Creation is thus said to be a kind of change, according to the way of understanding, insofar as our intellect accepts one and the same thing as not existing before and afterwards existing.",
  "* The perfection of the effect demonstrates the perfection of the cause, for a greater power brings about a more perfect effect. But God is the most perfect agent. Therefore, things created by Him obtain perfection from Him. So, to detract from the perfection of creatures is to detract from the perfection of divine power.",
  "* Natural inclinations are present in things from God, who moves all things. So it is impossible for the natural inclinations of a species to be toward evil in itself. But there is in all perfect animals a natural inclination toward carnal union. Therefore it is impossible for carnal union to be evil in itself.",
  "*The highest perfection of human life consists in the mind of man being detached from care, for the sake of God.",
  "* Since the Jews may not licitly keep those things which they have extorted from others through usury, the consequence is also that if you [rulers] receive these things from them, neither may you licitly keep them.[\u2026] You should restore them to those to whom the Jews themselves are morally bound to make restitution.",
  "* It would be better if they [rulers] compelled the Jews to work for their living, as they do in parts of Italy, than that, living without occupation, they can grow rich only by usury (solis usuris ditentur).",
  "* Now what has been said about the Jews is also to be understood about Cahorsins, and anyone else depending upon the depravity of usury.",
  "* It is on account neither of Gods weakness nor ignorance that evil comes into the world, but rather it is due to the order of his wisdom and the greatness of his goodness that diverse grades of goodness occur in things, many of which would be lacking if no evil were permitted. Indeed, the good of patience would not exist without the evil of persecution; nor the good of preservation of life in a lion if not for the evil of the destruction of the animals on which it lives.",
  "* Man reaches the highest point of his knowledge about God when he knows that he knows him not, inasmuch as he knows that that which is God transcends whatsoever he conceives of him.",
  "* There is no order between created being and non-being, but there is between created and uncreated being.",
  "**The highest manifestation of life consists in this: that a being governs its own actions. A being that is always subject to the direction of another is somewhat of a dead thing.",
  "** Three things are necessary for man to be saved: knowledge of what is to be believed, knowledge of what is to be desired, and knowledge of what is to be done.",
  "** The law of nature [\u2026] is nothing other than the light of the intellect planted in us by God, by which we know what should be done and what should be avoided. God gave us this light or law in creation.",
  "** No evil can be excused because it is done with a good intention.",
  "* If man of himself could in a perfect manner know all things visible and invisible, it would indeed be foolish to believe what he does not see. But our manner of knowing is so weak that no philosopher could perfectly investigate the nature of even one little fly.",
  "* Suppose a person entering a house were to feel heat on the porch, and going further, were to feel the heat increasing, the more they penetrated within. Doubtless, such a person would believe there was a fire in the house, even though they did not see the fire that must be causing all this heat. A similar thing will happen to anyone who considers this world in detail: one will observe that all things are arranged according to their degrees of beauty and excellence, and that the nearer they are to God, the more beautiful and better they are.",
  "* Now, as the Word of God is the Son of God, so the love of God is the Holy Spirit.",
  "* It was necessary for our salvation that there be a knowledge revealed by God, besides philosophical science built up by human reason. Firstly, indeed, because the human being is directed to God, as to an end that surpasses the grasp of his reason. \"The eye hath not seen, O God, besides Thee, what things Thou hast prepared for them that wait for Thee\" (Isaiah 64:4). But the end must first be known by men who are to direct their thoughts and actions to the end. Hence it was necessary for the salvation of man that certain truths which exceed human reason should be made known to him by divine revelation.",
  "* Grace does not destroy nature but perfects it.",
  "* Whatever is in motion must be put in motion by another. If that by which it is put in motion be itself put in motion, then this also must needs be put in motion by another, and that by another again. But this cannot go on to infinity, because then there would be no first mover, and, consequently, no other mover; seeing that subsequent movers move only inasmuch as they are put in motion by the first mover; as the staff moves only because it is put in motion by the hand. Therefore it is necessary to arrive at a first mover, put in motion by no other; and this everyone understands to be God.",
  "* God is the most noble of beings. Now it is impossible for a body to be the most noble of beings; for a body must be either animate or inanimate; and an animate body is manifestly nobler than any inanimate body. But an animate body is not animate precisely as body; otherwise all bodies would be animate. Therefore its animation depends upon some other thing, as our body depends for its animation on the soul. Hence that by which a body becomes animated must be nobler than the body. Therefore it is impossible that God should be a body.",
  "* The fire of hell is called eternal, only because it never ends. Still, there is change in the pains of the lost...Hence in hell true eternity does not exist, but rather time.",
  "* Whether God can make the past not to have been?",
  "* Reason may be employed in two ways to establish a point: firstly, for the purpose of furnishing sufficient proof of some principle, as in natural science, where sufficient proof can be brought to show that the movement of the heavens is always of uniform velocity. Reason is employed in another way, not as furnishing a sufficient proof of a principle, but as confirming an already established principle, by showing the congruity of its results, as in astrology the theory of eccentrics and epicycles is considered as established, because thereby the sensible appearances of the heavenly movements can be explained; not, however, as if this proof were sufficient, forasmuch as some other theory might explain them.",
  "* Whether the Woman should have been made in the first production of things?",
  "* As regards the individual nature, woman is defective and misbegotten, for the active power of the male seed tends to the production of a perfect likeness in the masculine sex; while the production of a woman comes from defect in the active force or from some material indisposition, or even from some external influence...On the other hand, as regards human nature in general, woman is not misbegotten, but is included in natures intention as directed to the work of generation. Now the general intention of nature depends on God, Who is the universal Author of nature. Therefore, in producing nature, God formed not only the male but also the female.",
  "* The image of God always abides in the soul, whether this image be obsolete and clouded over as to amount to almost nothing; or whether it be obscured or disfigured, as is the case with sinners; or whether it be clear and beautiful as is the case with the just.",
  "* Not everyone who is enlightened by an angel knows that he is enlightened by him.",
  "* Whether the angel guardian ever forsakes a man?...It would seem that the angel guardian sometimes forsakes the man whom he is appointed to guard... On the contrary, The demons are ever assailing us, according to 1 Peter 5:8: \"Your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, goeth about, seeking whom he may devour.\" Much more therefore do the good angels ever guard us... the guardianship of the angels is an effect of Divine providence in regard to man. Now it is evident that neither man, nor anything at all, is entirely withdrawn from the providence of God: for in as far as a thing participates being, so far is it subject to the providence that extends over all being.",
  "* Now the object of the will, i.e., of mans appetite, is the universal good...Hence it is evident that nothing can lull the human will but the universal good. This is to be found, not in any creature, but in God alone; because every creature has goodness by participation. Thus God alone can satisfy the will of a human being.",
  "* Perfect happiness can consist in nothing else than the vision of the Divine Essence.",
  "* To scorn the dictate of reason is to scorn the commandment of God.",
  "* Beauty adds to goodness a relation to the cognitive faculty: so that \"good\" means that which simply pleases the appetite; while the \"beautiful\" is something pleasant to apprehend.",
  "* It is written (1 John 4:16): \"He that abideth in charity abideth in God, and God in him.\" Now charity is the love of God. Therefore, for the same reason, every love makes the beloved to be in the lover, and vice versa...the beloved is said to be in the lover, inasmuch as the beloved abides in the apprehension of the lover, according to Philippians 1:7, \"For that I have you in my heart\": while the lover is said to be in the beloved, according to apprehension, inasmuch as the lover is not satisfied with a superficial apprehension of the beloved, but strives to gain an intimate knowledge of everything pertaining to the beloved, so as to penetrate into his very soul.",
  "* it is to be observed that four proximate effects may be ascribed to love: viz. melting, enjoyment, languor, and fervor. Of these the first is \"melting,\" which is opposed to freezing. For things that are frozen, are closely bound together, so as to be hard to pierce. But it belongs to love that the appetite is fitted to receive the good which is loved, inasmuch as the object loved is in the lover...Consequently the freezing or hardening of the heart is a disposition incompatible with love: while melting denotes a softening of the heart, whereby the heart shows itself to be ready for the entrance of the beloved.",
  "* The third principle [way doing good to another may give pleasure] is the motive: for instance when a man is moved by one whom he loves, to do good to someone: for whatever we do or suffer for a friend is pleasant, because love is the principal cause of pleasure.",
  "* Thus from the four preceding articles, the definition of law may be gathered; and it is nothing else than an ordinance of reason for the common good, made by him who has care of the community, and promulgated.",
  "* But if mans affection be one of passion, then it is moved also in regard to other Prov. 12:10): \"The just regardeth the lives of his beasts: but the bowels of the wicked are cruel.\" Consequently the Lord, in order to inculcate pity to the Jewish people, who were prone to cruelty, wished them to practice pity even with regard to dumb animals, and forbade them to do certain things savoring of cruelty to animals. Hence He prohibited them to \"boil a kid in the milk of its dam\"; and to \"muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn\"; and to slay \"the dam with her young.\"",
  "* If forgers and other malefactors are forthwith condemned to death by the secular authorities, there is much more reason for heretics, as soon as they are convicted of heresy, to be not only excommunicated but even put to death.",
  "* Yet if heretics be altogether uprooted by death, this is not contrary to Our Lords command [in Matthew 13:30], which is to be understood as referring to the case when the cockle [weeds] cannot be plucked up without plucking up the wheat, as we explained above (10, 8, ad 1), when treating of unbelievers in general.",
  "* We ought to cherish the body. Our bodys substance is not from an evil principle, as the Manicheans imagine, but from God. And therefore, we ought to cherish the body by the friendship of love, by which we love God.",
  "* To love is to will the good of the other.",
  "* Man cannot live without joy. That is why one deprived of spiritual joys goes over to carnal pleasures.",
  "* Just as it is better to illuminate than merely to shine, so to pass on what one has contemplated is better than merely to contemplate.",
  "* To be united to God in unity of person was not fitting to human flesh, according to its natural endowments, since it was above his dignity; nevertheless, it was fitting that God, by reason of his infinite goodness, should unite it to himself for human salvation.",
  "* Whatever was in the human nature of Christ was moved at the bidding of the divine will; yet it does not follow that in Christ there was no movement of the will proper to human nature, for the good wills of other saints are moved by Gods will... For although the will cannot be inwardly moved by any creature, yet it can be moved inwardly by God.",
  "* Baptism is the door of the spiritual life and the gateway to the sacraments.",
  "* All admit that indulgences have some value; for it would be blasphemy to say that the Church does anything in vain.",
  "* Even as in the blessed in heaven there will be most perfect charity, so in the damned there will be the most perfect hate. Wherefore as the saints will rejoice in all goods, so will the damned grieve for all goods. Consequently the sight of the happiness of the saints will give them very great pain; hence it is written (Isaiah 26:11): \"Let the envious people see and be confounded, and let fire devour Thy enemies.\" Therefore they will wish all the good were damned.",
  "** I fear the man of a single book.",
  "* Prostitution in towns is like the sewer in a palace; take away the sewers and the palace becomes an impure and stinking place."
]