[
  "* How are we to adjudicate among rival ontologies? Certainly the answer is not provided by the semantical formula \"To be is to be the value of a variable\"; this formula serves rather, conversely, in testing the conformity of a given remark or doctrine to a prior ontological standard.",
  "* Nonbeing must in some sense be, otherwise what is it that there is not?  This tangled doctrine might be nicknamed Platos beard; historically it has proved tough, frequently dulling the edge of Occams razor.",
  "* Wymans overpopulated universe is in many ways unlovely. It offends the aesthetic sense of us who have a taste for desert landscapes.",
  "* Modern empiricism has been conditioned in large part by two dogmas. One is a belief in some fundamental cleavage between truths which are analytic, or grounded in meanings  independently of matters of fact, and truths which are synthetic, or grounded in fact. The other dogma is reductionism: the belief  that each meaningful statement is equivalent to some logical construct upon terms which refer to immediate experience. Both  dogmas, I shall argue, are ill-founded. One effect of abandoning them is, as we shall see, a blurring of the supposed boundary between speculative metaphysics and natural science. Another effect is a shift toward pragmatism. ",
  "* The word definition has come to have a dangerously reassuring sound, owing no doubt to its frequent occurrence in logical and mathematical writings.",
  "* Our argument is not flatly circular, but something like it. It has the form, figuratively speaking, of a closed curve in space.",
  "* No particular experiences are linked with any particular statements in the interior of the field, except indirectly  through considerations of equilibrium affecting the field as a whole.",
  "* Even a statement very close to the periphery can be held true in the face of recalcitrant  experience by pleading hallucination or by amending certain statements of the kind called logical laws. Conversely, by the same token, no statement is immune to revision. Revision even of the logical law of the excluded middle has been proposed as a means of simplifying quantum mechanics; and what difference is there in principle between such a shift and the shift whereby  Kepler superseded Ptolemy, or Einstein Newton, or Darwin  Aristotle?",
  "* As an empiricist I continue to think of the conceptual scheme of science as a tool, ultimately, for predicting future experience in the light of past experience. Physical objects are conceptually imported into the situation as convenient intermediaries\u2014not by definition in terms of experience, but simply as irreducible posits comparable, epistemologically, to the gods of Homer. For my part I do, qua lay physicist, believe in physical objects and not in Homers gods; and I consider it a scientific error to believe otherwise. But in point of epistemological footing the physical objects and the gods differ only in degree and not in kind. Both sorts of entities enter our conception only as cultural posits. The myth of physical objects is epistemologically superior to most in that it has proved more efficacious than other myths as a device for working a manageable structure into the flux of experience.",
  "* The issue over there being classes seems more a question of convenient conceptual scheme; the issue over there being centaurs, or brick houses on Elm Street, seems more a question of fact. But I have been urging that this difference is only one of degree, and that it turns upon our vaguely pragmatic inclination to adjust one strand of the fabric of science rather than another in accommodating some particular recalcitrant experience. Conservatism figures in such choices, and so does the quest for simplicity.",
  "* Tactically, conceptualism is no doubt the strongest position of the three; for the tired nominalist can lapse into conceptualism and still allay his puritanic conscience with the reflection that he has not quite taken to eating lotus with the Platonists.",
  "* A fancifully fancyless medium of unvarnished news.",
  "* Creatures inveterately die before reproducing their kind.",
  "* Logic chases truth up the tree of grammar.",
  "* Set theory in sheeps clothing.",
  "*  \"Yields falsehood when preceded by its quotation\" yields falsehood when preceded by its quotation.",
  "* Necessity resides in the way we talk about things, not in the things we talk about.",
  "* At root what is needed for scientific inquiry is just receptivity to data, skill in reasoning, and yearning for truth. Admittedly, ingenuity can help too.",
  "* Implication is thus the very texture of our web of belief, and logic is the theory that traces it.",
  "* It is within science itself, and not in some prior philosophy, that reality is to be identified and described.",
  "* We cannot stem linguistic change, but we can drag our feet. If each of us were to defy Alexander Pope and be the last to lay the old aside, it might not be a better world, but it would be a lovelier language.",
  "* Life is agid. Life is fulgid. Life is a burgeoning, a quickening of the dim primordial urge in the murky wastes of time. Life is what the least of us make most of us feel the least of us make the most of.",
  "* Possibly, but my concern is that there not be more things in my philosophy than are in heaven and earth."
]