[
  "* Nothing is so hateful to the philistine as the \"dreams of his youth.\" ... For what appeared to him in his dreams was the voice of the spirit, calling him once, as it does everyone. It is of this that youth always reminds him, eternally and ominously. That is why he is antagonistic toward youth.",
  "* Because he never raises his eyes to the great and the meaningful, the philistine has taken experience as his gospel. It has become for him a message about lifes commonness. But he has never grasped that there exists something other than experience, that there are values\u2014inexperienceable\u2014which we serve.",
  "* In what time does man live? The thinkers have always known that he does not live in any time at all. The immortality of thoughts and deeds banishes him to a timeless realm at whose heart an inscrutable death lies in wait. ... Devoured by the countless demands of the moment, time slipped away from him; the medium in which the pure melody of his youth would swell was destroyed. The fulfilled tranquility in which his late maturity would ripen was stolen from him. It was purloined by everyday reality, which, with its events, chance occurrences, and obligations, disrupted the myriad opportunities of youthful time, immortal time. ... From day to day, second to second, the self preserves itself, clinging to that instrument: time, the instrument that it was supposed to play.",
  "** Every expression of human mental life can be understood as a kind of language, and this understanding, in the manner of a true method, everywhere raises new questions.",
  "** The enslavement of language in prattle is joined by the enslavement of things in folly almost as its inevitable consequence.",
  "* I would like to metamorphose into a mouse-mountain.",
  "* Things are only mannequins and even the great world-historical events are only costumes beneath which they exchange glances with nothingness.",
  "* Of all the ways of acquiring books, writing them oneself is regarded as the most praiseworthy method. \u2026  Writers are really people who write books not because they are poor, but because they are dissatisfied with the books which they could buy but do not like.",
  "* The destructive character knows only one watchword: make room. And only one activity: clearing away. His need for fresh air and open space is stronger than any hatred.",
  "* Reminiscences, even extensive ones, do not always amount to an autobiography. \u2026 For even if months and years appear here, it is in the form they have in the moment of recollection. This strange form \u2014 it may be called fleeting or eternal \u2014 is in neither case the stuff that life is made of.",
  "* Mechanical reproduction emancipates the work of art from its parasitical dependence on ritual. To an ever greater degree the work of art reproduced becomes the work of art designed for reproducibility. From a photographic negative, for example, one can make any number of prints; to ask for the \u201cauthentic\u201d print makes no sense. But the instant the criterion of authenticity ceases to be applicable to artistic production, the total function of art is reversed. Instead of being based on ritual, it begins to be based on another practice \u2013 politics.",
  "* There is no muse of philosophy, nor is there one of translation.",
  "** The question to address is that of the conscious unity of student life ... the will to submit to a principle, to identify completely with an idea. The concept of \"science\" or scholarly discipline serves primarily to conceal a deep-rooted bourgeois indifference.",
  "** Scholarship, far from leading inexorably to a profession, may in fact preclude it. For it does not permit you to abandon it.",
  "* The true sign of decadence is not the collusion of the university and the state (something that is by no means incompatible with honest barbarity), but the theory and guarantee of academic freedom, when in reality people assume with brutal simplicity that the aim of study is to steer its disciples to a socially conceived individuality.",
  "* Everyone who achieves strives for totality, and the value of his achievement lies in that totalitythat is, in the fact that the whole, undivided nature of a human being should be expressed in his achievement. But when determined by our society, as we see it today, achievement does not express a totality; it is completely fragmented and derivative. It is not uncommon for the community to be the site where a joint and covert struggle is waged against higher ambitions and more personal goals. ... The socially relevant achievement of the average person serves in the vast majority of cases to repress the original and nonderivative, inner aspirations of the human being.",
  "** For the Romantics and for speculative philosophy, ... to be critical meant to elevate thinking so far beyond all restrictive conditions that the knowledge of truth sprang forth magically, as it were, from insight into the falsehood of these restrictions.",
  "* The critic does not pass judgment on the work; rather, art itself passes judgment, either by taking up the work in the medium of criticism or by rejecting it and thereby appraising it as beneath all criticism.",
  "** In the appreciation of a work of art or an art form, consideration of the receiver never proves fruitful. Not only is any reference to a particular public or its representatives misleading, but even the concept of an \"ideal\" receiver is detrimental in the theoretical consideration of art, since all it posits is the existence and nature of man as such. Art, in the same way, posits mans physical and spiritual existence, but in none of its works is it concerned with his attentiveness. No poem is intended for the reader, no picture for the beholder, no symphony for the audience.",
  "** If the original does not exist for the readers sake, how could the translation be understood on the basis of this premise?",
  "** One might, for example, speak of an unforgettable life or moment even if all men had forgotten it. If the nature of such a life or moment required that it be unforgotten, that predicate would imply not a falsehood but merely a claim unfulfilled by men, and probably also a reference to a realm in which it is fulfilled: Gods remembrance.",
  "** All purposeful manifestations of life, including their very purposiveness, in the final analysis have their end not in life but in the expression of its nature, in the representation of its significance.",
  "** A religion may be discerned in capitalismthat is to say, capitalism serves essentially to allay the same anxieties, torments, and disturbances to which the so-called religions offered answers.",
  "** Capitalism is presumably the first case of a blaming, rather than a repenting cult. ... An enormous feeling of guilt not itself knowing how to repent, grasps at the cult, not in order to repent for this guilt, but to make it universal, to hammer it into consciousness and finally and above all to include God himself in this guilt.",
  "* Where the presence of truth should be possible, it can be possible solely under the condition of the recognition of myththat is, the recognition of its crushing indifference to truth.",
  "* Treatises may be didactic in tone, but essentially they lack the conclusiveness of an instruction which could be asserted, like doctrine, by virtue of its own authority. ... Tirelessly the process of thinking makes new beginnings, returning in a roundabout way to its original object. This continual pausing for breath is the mode most proper to the process of contemplation. For by pursuing different levels of meaning in its examination of one single object it receives both the incentive to begin again and the justification for its irregular rhythm.",
  "* Criticism and prophecy must be the two categories that meet in the salvation of the past",
  "** For me, it was like this: pronounced antipathy to conversing about matters of practical life, the future, dates, politics. You are fixated on the intellectual sphere as a man possessed may be fixated on the sexual: under its spell, sucked into it.",
  "** You follow the same paths of thought as before. Only, they appear strewn with roses.",
  "* A curious paradox: people have only the narrowest private interest in mind when they act, yet they are at the same time more than ever determined in their behavior by the instincts of the mass. ... The diversity of individual goals is immaterial in face of the identity of the determining forces.",
  "* The art of storytelling is reaching its end because the epic side of truth, wisdom, is dying out.",
  "* If sleep is the apogee of physical relaxation, boredom is the apogee of mental relaxation. Boredom is the dream bird that hatches the egg of experience.",
  "*Our image of happiness is indissolubly bound up with the image of the past.",
  "* There is a secret agreement between past generations and the present one. Our coming was expected on earth. Like every generation that preceded us, we have been endowed with a weak Messianic power, a power to which the past has a claim. That claim cannot be settled cheaply.",
  "* Nothing that has ever happened should be regarded as lost for history. To be sure, only a redeemed mankind receives the fullness of its past \u2014 which is to say, only a redeemed mankind has its past become citable in all its moments. Each moment it has lived becomes a citation \u00e0 lordre du jour \u2014 and that day is Judgement Day.",
  "* The true picture of the past flits by. The past can be seized only as an image which flashes up at the instant when it can be recognized and is never seen again.",
  "* The good tidings which the historian of the past brings with throbbing heart may be lost in a void the very moment he opens his mouth.",
  "* To articulate the past historically does not mean to recognize it \u2018the way it really was\u2019 (Ranke). It means to seize hold of a memory as it flashes up at a moment of danger. Historical materialism wishes to retain that image of the past which unexpectedly appears to man singled out by history at a moment of danger. The danger affects both the content of the tradition and its receivers. The same threat hangs over both: that of becoming a tool of the ruling classes. In every era the attempt must be made anew to wrest tradition away from a conformism that is about to overpower it. The Messiah comes not only as the redeemer, he comes as the subduer of Antichrist. Only that historian will have the gift of fanning the spark of hope in the past who is firmly convinced that even the dead will not be safe from the enemy if he wins. And this enemy has not ceased to be victorious.",
  "** There is no document of civilization which is not at the same time a document of barbarism.",
  "* The nature of this melancholy becomes clearer, once one asks the question, with whom does the historical writer of historicism actually empathize. The answer is irrefutably with the victor. Those who currently rule are however the heirs of all those who have ever been victorious. Empathy with the victors thus comes to benefit the current rulers every time.",
  "* The tradition of the oppressed teaches us that the \"state of emergency\" in which we live is not the exception but the rule.",
  "* A Klee painting named \u2018Angelus Novus\u2019 shows an angel looking as though he is about to move away from something he is fixedly contemplating. His eyes are staring, his mouth is open, his wings are spread. This is how one pictures the skyward. This storm is what we call progress.",
  "* The historical materialist leaves it to others to be drained by the whore called \"Once upon a time\" in historicisms bordello. ",
  "* Thinking involves not only the flow of thoughts, but their arrest as well.",
  "* The nourishing fruit of the historically understood contains time as a precious but tasteless seed.",
  "* The present, which, as a model of Messianic time, comprises the entire history of mankind in an enormous abridgment, coincides with the stature which the history of mankind has in the universe.",
  "* We know that the Jews were prohibited from investigating the future. The Torah and the prayers instruct them in remembrance, however. This stripped the future of its magic, to which all those succumb who turn to the soothsayers for enlightenment. This did not imply, however, that for the Jews the future turned into homogeneous empty time. For every second of time was the straight gate through which the Messiah might enter.",
  "* Only a thoughtless observer can deny that correspondences come into play between the world of modern technology and the archaic symbol-world of mythology.",
  "* History breaks down in images not into stories.",
  "* In the fields with which we are concerned knowledge exists only in lightning flashes. The text is the thunder rolling long afterwards."
]