[
  "* The more precise the measurement of position, the more imprecise the measurement of momentum, and vice versa.",
  "* Light and matter are both single entities, and the apparent duality arises in the limitations of our language. It is not surprising that our language should be incapable of describing the processes occurring within the atoms, for, as has been remarked, it was invented to describe the experiences of daily life, and these consist only of processes involving exceedingly large numbers of atoms. Furthermore, it is very difficult to modify our language so that it will be able to describe these atomic processes, for words can only describe things of which we can form mental pictures, and this ability, too, is a result of daily experience. Fortunately, mathematics is not subject to this limitation, and it has been possible to invent a mathematical scheme \u2014 the quantum theory \u2014  which seems entirely adequate for the treatment of atomic processes; for visualisation, however, we must content ourselves with two incomplete analogies \u2014 the wave picture and the corpuscular picture.",
  "* Every experiment destroys some of the knowledge of the system which was obtained by previous experiments.",
  "** Quantum theory provides us with a striking illustration of the fact that we can fully understand a connection though we can only speak of it in images and parables.",
  "** An expert is someone who knows some of the worst mistakes that can be made in his subject, and how to avoid them.",
  "* In general, scientific progress calls for no more than the absorption and elaboration of new ideas \u2014 and this is a call most scientists are happy to heed.",
  "* There is a fundamental complementarity constitute reality.",
  "* After these conversations with Tagore some of the ideas that had seemed so crazy suddenly made much more sense. That was a great help for me.",
  "* I think that modern physics has definitely decided in favor of Plato. In fact the smallest units of matter are not physical objects in the ordinary sense; they are forms, ideas which can be expressed unambiguously only in mathematical language.",
  "* If nature leads us to mathematical forms of great simplicity and beauty\u2014by forms I am referring to coherent systems of hypothesis, axioms, etc.\u2014to forms that no one has previously encountered, we cannot help thinking that they are \"true,\" that they reveal a genuine feature of nature... You must have felt this too: The almost frightening simplicity and wholeness of relationships which nature suddenly spreads out before us and for which none of us was in the least prepared.",
  "*Of course, we all know that our own reality depends on the structure of our consciousness; we can objectify no more than a small part of our world. But even when we try to probe into the subjective realm, we cannot ignore the central order\u2026In the final analysis, the central order, or the one as it used to be called and with which we commune in the language of religion, must win out.",
  "*The great scientific contribution in theoretical physics that has come from Japan since the last war may be an indication of a certain relationship between philosophical ideas in the tradition of the Far East and the philosophical substance of quantum theory.",
  "*After a great war, history is written by the victors and legends develop which glorify them.",
  "* The interest of research workers has frequently been focused on the phenomenon of regularly shaped crystals suddenly forming from a liquid, e.g. a supersaturated salt solution. According to the atomic Schr\u00f6dingers wave equation, and to that extent crystallization is explained by the atomic theory. Nevertheless this process retains a statistical and \u2014 one might almost say \u2014  historical element which cannot be further reduced: even when the state of the liquid is completely known before crystallization, the shape of the crystal is not determined by the laws of quantum mechanics. The formation of regular shapes is just far more probable than that of a shapeless lump. But the ultimate shape owes its genesis partly to an element of chance which in principle cannot be analysed further.",
  "* However the development proceeds in detail, the path so far traced by the quantum theory indicates that an understanding of those still unclarified features of atomic physics can only be acquired by foregoing visualization and objectification to an extent greater than that customary hitherto. We have probably no reason to regret this, because the thought of the great epistemological difficulties with which the visual atom concept of earlier physics had to contend gives us the hope that the abstracter atomic physics developing at present will one day fit more harmoniously into the great edifice of Science.",
  "* We have to remember that what we observe is not nature herself, but nature exposed to our method of questioning. ",
  "* The atoms in the philosophy of {{w|Leucippus}} do not move merely by chance. Leucippus seems to have believed in complete atomists did not give any reason for the original motion of the atoms, which just shows that they thought of a causal description of the atomic motion; causality can only explain later events by earlier events, but it can never explain the beginning.",
  "* In the philosophy of Pythagoreans. The elementary particles are certainly not eternal and indestructible units of matter, they can actually be transformed into each other. As a matter of fact, if two such particles, moving through space with a very high kinetic energy, collide, then many new elementary particles may be created from the available energy and the old particles may have disappeared in the collision. Such events have been frequently observed and offer the best proof that all particles are made of the same substance: energy. ",
  "* But the resemblance of the modern views to those of Pythagoreans can be carried somewhat further. The elementary particles in Platos Timaeus are finally not substance but mathematical forms. \"All things are numbers\" is a sentence attributed to Pythagoras. The only mathematical forms available at that time were such geometric forms as the regular solids or the triangles which form their surface. In modern quantum theory there can be no doubt that the elementary particles will finally also be mathematical forms but of a much more complicated nature.",
  "* The Greek philosophers thought of static forms and found them in the regular solids. Modern science, however, has from its beginning in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries started from the dynamic problem. The constant element in physics since Newton is not a configuration or a geometrical form, but a dynamic law.",
  "* The equation of motion holds at all times, it is in this sense eternal, whereas the geometrical forms, like the orbits, are changing. Therefore, the mathematical forms that represent the elementary particles will be solutions of some eternal law of motion for matter. Actually this is a problem which has not yet been solved.",
  "* There is an enormous difference between modern science and Greek philosophy, and that is just the empiristic attitude... Since the time of Galileo and Newton, modern science has been based upon a detailed study of nature and upon the postulate that only such statements should be made, as have been verified or at least can be verified by experiment. The idea that one can single out some events from nature by an experiment... to find out what is the constant law in the continuous change, did not occur to the Greek philosophers. Therefore, modern science has from its beginning stood on a much more modest, but at the same time much firmer, basis than ancient philosophy. Therefore, the statements of modern physics are in some way meant much more seriously than the statements of Greek philosophy.",
  "* [I]n the Descartes could not have thought, but it makes a sharp separation between the world and the I impossible.If one follows the great difficulty which even eminent scientists like Einstein had in understanding and accepting the Copenhagen interpretation... one can trace the roots... to the Cartesian partition....it will take a long time for it  [this partition]  to be replaced by a really different attitude toward the problem of reality. ",
  "* Modern positivism...expresses criticism against the na\u00efve use of certain terms... by the general postulate that the question whether a given sentence has any meaning... should always be thoroughly and critically examined. This... is derived from mathematical logic.  The procedure of natural science is pictured as an attachment of symbols to the phenomena. The symbols can, as in mathematics, be combined according to certain rules... However, a combination of symbols that does not comply with the rules is not wrong but conveys no meaning.The obvious difficulty in this argument is the lack of any general criterion as to when a sentence should be considered meaningless. A definite decision is possible only when the sentence belongs to a closed system of concepts and axioms, which in the development of natural science will be rather the exception than the rule. In some case the conjecture that a certain sentence is meaningless has historically led to important progress... new connections which would have been impossible if the sentence had a meaning. An example... sentence: \"In which orbit does the electron move around the nucleus?\" But generally the positivistic scheme taken from mathematical logic is too narrow in a description of nature which necessarily uses words and concepts that are only vaguely defined.",
  "* The words \"position\" and \"velocity\" of an electron... seemed perfectly well defined... and in fact they were clearly defined concepts within the mathematical framework of Newtonian mechanics. But actually they were not well defined, as seen from the relations of uncertainty. One may say that regarding their position in Newtonian mechanics they were well defined, but in their relation to nature, they were not. This shows that we can never know beforehand which limitations will be put on the applicability of certain concepts by the extension of our knowledge into the remote parts of nature, into which we can only penetrate with the most elaborate tools. Therefore, in the process of penetration we are bound sometimes to use our concepts in a way which is not justified and which carries no meaning. Insistence on the postulate of complete logical clarification would make science impossible. We are reminded... of the old wisdom that one who insists on never uttering an error must remain silent.",
  "* The law of conservation of matter is no longer true for the elementary particles. Obviously Kant could not have foreseen the new discoveries, but since he was convinced that his concepts would be \"the basis of any future metaphysics that can be called science\" it is interesting to see where his arguments have been wrong.",
  "* Any concepts or words which have been formed in the past through the interplay between the world and ourselves are not really sharply defined with respect to their meaning: that is to say, we do not know exactly how far they will help us in finding our way in the world. We often know that they can be applied to a wide range of inner or outer experience, but we practically never know precisely the limits of their applicability. This is true even of the simplest and most general concepts like \"existence\" and \"space and time\". Therefore, it will never be possible by pure reason to arrive at some absolute truth.  The concepts may, however, be sharply defined with regard to their connections. This is actually the fact when the concepts become  part of a system of axioms and definitions which can be expressed consistently by a mathematical scheme.  Such a group of connected concepts may be applicable to a wide field of experience and will help us to find our way in this field. But the limits of the applicability will in general not be known, at least not completely.",
  "* The existing scientific concepts cover always only a very limited part of reality, and the other part that has not yet been understood is infinite.",
  "* Whenever we proceed from the known into the unknown we may hope to understand, but we may have to learn at the same time a new meaning of the word \"understanding.\" ",
  "* The physicist may be satisfied when he has the mathematical scheme and knows how to use for the interpretation of the experiments. But he has to speak about his results also to non-physicists who will not be satisfied unless some explanation is given in plain language. Even for the physicist the description in plain language will be the criterion of the degree of understanding that has been reached.",
  "* I remember discussions with Bohr which went through many hours till very late at night and ended almost in despair; and when at the end of the discussion I went alone for a walk in the neighbouring park I repeated to myself again and again the question: Can nature possibly be so absurd as it seemed to us in these atomic experiments?",
  "* Some subjects are so serious that one can only joke about them.",
  "* Reality is in the observations, not in the electron.",
  "* I am the one who knocks.",
  "* The first gulp from the glass of natural sciences will turn you into an atheist, but at the bottom of the glass God is waiting for her."
]