[
  "* [W]ithout an agreement imposed from the outside, our situation will deteriorate to that of a second Vietnam, to a war in constant escalation without the prospect of ultimate resolution.",
  "* \"neighbors, as in the case of Holland/Sweden/Norway, the United States/Canada. In the absence of peace there is no security, and no geographic-strategic settlement on the land can change this. There is no direct link between security and the territories.",
  "* Our security has been diminished rather than enhanced as a result of the conquests in this war.",
  "* Our real problem is not the territory but rather the population of about a million and a half Arabs who live in it and over whom we must rule. Inclusion of these Arabs (in addition to the half a million who are citizens of the state) in the area under our rule will effect the liquidation of the state of Israel as the state of the Jewish people and bring about catastrophe for the Jewish people as a whole; it will undermine the social structure that we have created in the state and cause the Arab.",
  "* Rule over the occupied territories would have social repercussions. After a few years there would be no Jewish workers or Jewish farmers. The Arabs would be the working people and the Jews the administrators, inspectors, officials, and police\u2014mainly secret police. A state ruling a hostile population of 1.5 to 2 million foreigners would necessarily become a secret-police state, with all that this implies for Israel Defense Force, which has been until now a peoples army, would, as a result of being transformed into an army of occupation, degenerate, and its commanders, who will have become military governors, resemble their colleagues in other nations.Out of concern for the Jewish people and its state we have no choice but to withdraw from the territories and their population of one and a half million Arabs.",
  "* As for the \"religious\" arguments for the annexation of the territories\u2014these are only an expression, subconsciously or perhaps even overtly hypocritical, of the transformation of the Jewish religion into a camouflage for Israeli nationalism. Counterfeit religion identifies national interests with the service of God and imputes to the state\u2014which is only an instrument serving human needs\u2014supreme value from a religious standpoint.",
  "* Not every \"return to Zion\" is a religiously significant achievement: one sort of return which may be described in the words of the prophet: \"When you returned you defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination\" (Jeremiah 2:7).",
  "* Most characteristic of the Halakhah is its lack of pathos.",
  "* Only a religion addressed to lifes prose, a religion of the dull routine of daily activity, is worthy of the name.",
  "*  The religion of halakhic practice is the religion of life itself.",
  "* The formulation \"ways to faith\" could be interpreted as implying that faith is a conclusion a person may come to after pondering certain facts about the world-facts about history, nature, or consciousness. If that were the case, one could lead a person to this conclusion by presenting these facts to him and pointing out their implications. I, however, do not regard religious faith as a conclusion. It is rather an evaluative decision that one makes, and, like all evaluations, it does not result from any information one has acquired, but is a commitment to which one binds himself. In other words, faith is not a form of cognition; it is a conative element of consciousness.",
  "* From a religious point of view the triadic classification of being as nature, spirit, and God has no validity. There is only the dyad: nature, which includes the human spirit, and God. The only way man can break the bonds of nature is by cleaving to God; by acting in compliance with the divine will rather than in accordance with the human will.",
  "* The essence of Jewish faith is consistent with no embodiment other than the system of halakhic praxis.",
  "* Only the prayer which one prays as the observance of a Mitzvah is religiously significant. The spontaneous prayer (\"when he is overwhelmed and pours out his complaint before God\") a man prays of his own accord is, of course, halakhically permissible, but, like the performance of any act which has not been prescribed, its religious value is limited. As a religious act it is even faulty, since he who prays to satisfy his needs sets himself up as an end, as though God were a means for promotion of his welfare.",
  "* Emancipation from the bondage of nature can only be brought about by the religion of Mitzvoth"
]