["* It is no longer a choice between violence and non-violence; it is either non-violence or non-existence. The alternative to disarmament, the alternative to suspension of nuclear tests, the alternative to strengthening the United Nations and disarming the whole world may well be a civilization plunged into the abyss of annihilation. I never intend to become adjusted to the madness of militarism, and maybe the great need of our nation and our world today is for a society of the creative maladjusted, men and women who will be as maladjusted as the prophet Amos, who in the midst of the injustices of his day, could cry out in words that echo across the centuries, \"Let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream.\"  As maladjusted as Abraham Lincoln, who had the vision to see that this nation could not exist half slave and half free. As maladjusted as Thomas Jefferson, who in the midst of an age amazingly adjusted to slavery could cry out in words lifted to cosmic proportions, \"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.  As maladjusted as Jesus of Nazareth, who in the midst of the fascinating and intricate military machinery of the Roman Empire could cry out, \"He who lives by the sword will perish by the sword,\" and also, \"Love your enemies; bless them that curse you, pray for them that do spitefully use you.\"  And I believe that such maladjustment will help us emerge from the bleak and desolate midnight of mans inhumanity to man into the bright and glittering daybreak of freedom and justice. And then we will be able to go that additional distance, and we will speed up the day when all of Gods children, white men and black men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands right here in America and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, \"Free at last, free at last! Thank God Almighty we are free at last!\"", "* But though I was initially disappointed at being categorized as an Amos an extremist for Paul an extremist for the Christian gospel: \"I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.\" Was not Martin Luther an extremist: \"Here I stand; I cannot do otherwise, so help me God.\" And John Bunyan: \"I will stay in jail to the end of my days before I make a butchery of my conscience.\" And Abraham Lincoln: \"This nation cannot survive half slave and half free.\" And Thomas Jefferson: \"We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal . . .\" So the question is not whether we will be extremists, but what kind of extremists we will be. Will we be extremists for hate or for love? Will we be extremists for the preservation of injustice or for the extension of justice? In that dramatic scene on Calvarys hill three men were crucified. We must never forget that all three were crucified for the same crime \u2014 the crime of extremism. Two were extremists for immorality, and thus fell below their environment. The other, Jesus Christ, was an extremist for love, truth and goodness, and thereby rose above his environment. Perhaps the South, the nation and the world are in dire need of creative extremists.", "* I have no fear about the outcome of our struggle in Birmingham, even if our motives are at present misunderstood. We will reach the goal of freedom in Birmingham and all over the nation, because the goal of America is freedom. Abused and scorned though we may be, our destiny is tied up with Americas destiny. Before the pilgrims landed at Plymouth, we were here. Before the pen of Jefferson etched the majestic words of the Declaration of Independence across the pages of history, we were here. For more than two centuries our forebears labored in this country without wages; they made cotton king; they built the homes of their masters while suffering gross injustice and shameful humiliation -and yet out of a bottomless vitality they continued to thrive and develop. If the inexpressible cruelties of slavery could not stop us, the opposition we now face will surely fail. We will win our freedom because the sacred heritage of our nation and the eternal will of God are embodied in our echoing demands.", "* I go back to the South not with a feeling that we are caught in a dark dungeon that will never lead to a way out. I go back believing that the new day is coming. And so this afternoon, I have a Emmett Till had to face or Medgar Evers had to face, that all men can live with dignity.  I have a dream this afternoon that my four little children, that my four little children will not come up in the same young days that I came up within, but they will be judged on the basis of the content of their character, not the color of their skin.  I have a dream this afternoon that one day right here in Detroit, Negroes will be able to buy a house or rent a house anywhere that their money will carry them and they will be able to get a job.  Yes, I have a dream this afternoon that one day in this land the words of Amos will become real and \"justice will roll down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream.\"  I have a dream this evening that one day we will recognize the words of Jefferson that \"all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.\" I have a dream this afternoon.  I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, and \"every valley shall be exalted, and every hill shall be made low; the crooked places shall be made straight, and the rough places plain; and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.\"  I have a dream this afternoon that the brotherhood of man will become a reality in this day.  And with this faith I will go out and carve a tunnel of hope through the mountain of despair. With this faith, I will go out with you and transform dark yesterdays into bright tomorrows. With this faith, we will be able to achieve this new day when all of Gods children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing with the Negroes in the spiritual of old: \"Free at last! Free at last! Thank God almighty, we are free at last!\""]