["* There is something within all of us that causes us to cry out with Goethe, \"There is enough stuff in me to make both a gentleman and a rogue.\" There is something within each of us that causes us to cry out with Apostle Paul, \"I see and approve the better things of life, but the evil things I do.\" So somehow the \"isness\" of our present nature is out of harmony with the eternal \"oughtness\" that forever confronts us. And this simply means this: That within the best of us, there is some evil, and within the worst of us, there is some good. When we come to see this, we take a different attitude toward individuals. The person who hates you most has some good in him; even the nation that hates you most has some good in it; even the race that hates you most has some good in it. And when you come to the point that you look in the face of every man and see deep down within him what religion calls \"the image of God,\" you begin to love him in spite of. No matter what he does, you see Gods image there. There is an element of goodness that he can never sluff off. Discover the element of good in your enemy. And as you seek to hate him, find the center of goodness and place your attention there and you will take a new attitude.", "* Second we must recognize that the evil deed of the enemy-neighbor, the thing that hurts, never quite expresses all that he is. An element of goodness may be found even in our worst enemy. Each of us is something of a schizophrenic personality, tragically divided against ourselves. A persistent civil war rages within all or our lives. Something within us causes us to lament with Apostle Paul, \"The good that I would I do not, but the evil which I would not, I do.\"", "* In every age and every generation men have envisioned some promised land. Bellamy, in Looking Backward, thought of it as a day when the inequalities of monopoly capitalism would pass away. Society would exist onthe basis of evenness of economic output. Kingdom of God, a time when the will of God will reign supreme, and brotherhood, love, and right relationships will be the order of society. In every age and every generation men have dreamed of some promised land of fulfillment of freedom. Whether it was the right promised land or not, they dreamed of it. But in moving from some Egypt of slavery, whether in the intellectual, cultural or moral realm, toward some promised land, there is always the same temptation. Individuals will get bogged down in a particular mountain in a particular spot, and thereby become the victims of stagnant complacency. So, this afternoon, I would like to deal with three or four symbolic mountains that we have been in long enough-mountains that we must move out of if we are to go forward in our world and if civilization is to survive.", "* And Im going on in believing in Him. Youd better know Him, and know His name, and know how to call His name. You may not know philosophy. You may not be able to say with Alfred North Whitehead that Hes the Principle of Concretion. You may not be able to say with Hegel and Spinoza that He is the Absolute Whole. You may not be able to say with Plato that Hes the Architectonic Good. You may not be able to say with Aristotle that Hes the Unmoved Mover. But sometimes you can get poetic about it if you know Him. You begin to know that our brothers and sisters in distant days were right. Because they did know Him as a rock in a weary land, as a shelter in the time of starving, as my water when Im thirsty, and then my bread in a starving land. And then if you cant even say that, sometimes you may have to say, \"Hes my everything. Hes my sister and my brother. Hes my mother and my father.\" If you believe it and know it, you never need walk in darkness. Dont be a fool. Recognize your dependence on God. As the days become dark and the nights become dreary, realize that there is a God who rules above. And so Im not worried about tomorrow. I get weary every now and then. The future looks difficult and dim, but Im not worried about it ultimately because I have faith in God.", "* And so Jesus gave us a new norm of greatness. If you want to be important \u2014 wonderful. If you want to be recognized \u2014 wonderful. If you want to be great \u2014 wonderful. But recognize that he who is greatest among you shall be your servant. Thats a new definition of greatness. And this morning, the thing that I like about it: by giving that definition of greatness, it means that everybody can be great, (Everybody) because everybody can serve. You dont have to have a college degree to serve. You dont have to make your subject and your verb agree to serve. You dont have to know about Plato and Aristotle to serve. You dont have to know Einsteins theory of relativity to serve. You dont have to know the second theory of thermodynamics in physics to serve. You only need a heart full of grace, a soul generated by love. And you can be that servant.", "* As you know, if I were standing at the beginning of time, with the possibility of general and panoramic view of the whole human history up to now, and the Almighty said to me, \"Martin Luther King, which age would you like to live in?\" \u2014 I would take my mental flight by Egypt through, or rather across the Red Sea, through the wilderness on toward the promised land. And in spite of its magnificence, I wouldnt stop there. I would move on by Greece, and take my mind to Mount Olympus. And I would see Plato, Aristotle, Socrates, Euripides and Aristophanes assembled around the Parthenon as they discussed the great and eternal issues of reality.  But I wouldnt stop there. I would go on, even to the great heyday of the Roman Empire. And I would see developments around there, through various emperors and leaders. But I wouldnt stop there. I would even come up to the day of the Renaissance, and get a quick picture of all that the Renaissance did for the cultural and esthetic life of man. But I wouldnt stop there. I would even go by the way that the man for whom Im named had his habitat. And I would watch Martin Luther as he tacked his ninety-five theses on the door at the church in Wittenberg.  But I wouldnt stop there. I would come on up even to 1863, and watch a vacillating president by the name of Abraham Lincoln finally come to the conclusion that he had to sign the Emancipation Proclamation. But I wouldnt stop there. I would even come up the early thirties, and see a man grappling with the problems of the bankruptcy of his nation. And come with an eloquent cry that we have nothing to fear but fear itself.  But I wouldnt stop there. Strangely enough, I would turn to the Almighty, and say, \"If you allow me to live just a few years in the second half of the twentieth century, I will be happy.\" Now thats a strange statement to make, because the world is all messed up. The nation is sick. Trouble is in the land. Confusion all around. Thats a strange statement. But I know, somehow, that only when it is dark enough, can you see the stars. And I see God working in this period of the twentieth century in a way that men, in some strange way, are responding \u2014 something is happening in our world. The masses of people are rising up. And wherever they are assembled today, whether they are in Johannesburg, South Africa; Nairobi, Kenya: Accra, Ghana; New York City; Atlanta, Georgia; Jackson, Mississippi; or Memphis, Tennessee \u2014 the cry is always the same \u2014 \"We want to be free.\""]