["* And I believe it because somehow the arc of the moral universe is long but it bends toward justice. We shall overcome because Carlyle is right: \"No lie can live forever.\" We shall overcome because William Cullen Bryant is right: \"Truth crushed to earth will rise again.\" We shall overcome because James Russell Lowell is right: \"Truth forever on the scaffold, wrong forever on the throne. Yet, that scaffold sways the future and behind the dim unknown standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own.\" With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith we will be able to speed up the day. And in the words of prophecy, \"Every valley shall be exalted and every mountain and hill shall be made low. The rough places will be made plain and the crooked places straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together.\" This will be a great day. This will be a marvelous hour. And at that moment, figuratively speaking in biblical words: \"the morning stars will sing together and the sons of God will shout for joy.\"", "* I have not lost faith. Im not in despair, because I know that there is a moral order. I havent lost faith, because the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice. I can still sing \"We Shall Overcome\" because Carlyle was right: \"No lie can live forever.\" We shall overcome because William Cullen Bryant was right: \"Truth pressed to earth will rise again.\" We shall overcome because James Russell Lowell was right: \"Truth forever on the scaffold, wrong forever on the throne.\" Yet, that scaffold sways the future. We shall overcome because the bible is right: \"You shall reap what you sow.\" With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our world into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith we will be able to speed up the day when justice will roll down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream. With this faith we will be able to speed up the day when the lion and the lamb will lie down together, and every man will sit under his own vine and fig tree, and none shall be afraid because the words of the Lord have spoken it. With this faith we will be able to speed up the day when all over the world we will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, \"Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, were free at last!\" With this faith, well sing it as were getting ready to sing it now. Men will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. And nations will not rise up against nations, neither shall they study war anymore. And I dont know about you, I aint gonna study war no more."]