["* But though I was initially disappointed at being categorized as an Amos an extremist for Paul an extremist for the Christian gospel: \"I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.\" Was not Martin Luther an extremist: \"Here I stand; I cannot do otherwise, so help me God.\" And John Bunyan: \"I will stay in jail to the end of my days before I make a butchery of my conscience.\" And Abraham Lincoln: \"This nation cannot survive half slave and half free.\" And Thomas Jefferson: \"We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal . . .\" So the question is not whether we will be extremists, but what kind of extremists we will be. Will we be extremists for hate or for love? Will we be extremists for the preservation of injustice or for the extension of justice? In that dramatic scene on Calvarys hill three men were crucified. We must never forget that all three were crucified for the same crime \u2014 the crime of extremism. Two were extremists for immorality, and thus fell below their environment. The other, Jesus Christ, was an extremist for love, truth and goodness, and thereby rose above his environment. Perhaps the South, the nation and the world are in dire need of creative extremists.", "* As you know, if I were standing at the beginning of time, with the possibility of general and panoramic view of the whole human history up to now, and the Almighty said to me, \"Martin Luther King, which age would you like to live in?\" \u2014 I would take my mental flight by Egypt through, or rather across the Red Sea, through the wilderness on toward the promised land. And in spite of its magnificence, I wouldnt stop there. I would move on by Greece, and take my mind to Mount Olympus. And I would see Plato, Aristotle, Socrates, Euripides and Aristophanes assembled around the Parthenon as they discussed the great and eternal issues of reality.  But I wouldnt stop there. I would go on, even to the great heyday of the Roman Empire. And I would see developments around there, through various emperors and leaders. But I wouldnt stop there. I would even come up to the day of the Renaissance, and get a quick picture of all that the Renaissance did for the cultural and esthetic life of man. But I wouldnt stop there. I would even go by the way that the man for whom Im named had his habitat. And I would watch Martin Luther as he tacked his ninety-five theses on the door at the church in Wittenberg.  But I wouldnt stop there. I would come on up even to 1863, and watch a vacillating president by the name of Abraham Lincoln finally come to the conclusion that he had to sign the Emancipation Proclamation. But I wouldnt stop there. I would even come up the early thirties, and see a man grappling with the problems of the bankruptcy of his nation. And come with an eloquent cry that we have nothing to fear but fear itself.  But I wouldnt stop there. Strangely enough, I would turn to the Almighty, and say, \"If you allow me to live just a few years in the second half of the twentieth century, I will be happy.\" Now thats a strange statement to make, because the world is all messed up. The nation is sick. Trouble is in the land. Confusion all around. Thats a strange statement. But I know, somehow, that only when it is dark enough, can you see the stars. And I see God working in this period of the twentieth century in a way that men, in some strange way, are responding \u2014 something is happening in our world. The masses of people are rising up. And wherever they are assembled today, whether they are in Johannesburg, South Africa; Nairobi, Kenya: Accra, Ghana; New York City; Atlanta, Georgia; Jackson, Mississippi; or Memphis, Tennessee \u2014 the cry is always the same \u2014 \"We want to be free.\""]