["* Enlightenment figure in the United States, along with wage labor, which was considered an abomination under classical liberal principles.", "* By comparative standards, the country is undertaxed. And its also regressively taxed, the tax burden falls mostly on the poor. What we need is a progressive tax system, of, incidentally, the kind that Jefferson advocated. You know, traditional libertarians, like Jefferson, advocated sharply progressive taxes, because they wanted a system of relative equality, knowing that thats a prerequisite for democracy. Jefferson specifically advocated it. We dont have it anymore, its sort of there in legislation but its gone. What we need is different social policies. And social policies which ought to be funded by the people who are going to benefit from it, thats the general public. So wed be a lot better off if we were higher taxed, and it was used for proper purposes. And we know what those are. I mean, for example, for women taking care of children. You know, it makes sense to pay them for that work, theyre doing important work for the society. [applause] And they should be paid for it, but that requires tax payments. And the same is true about protection of the environment.", "* I think the basic question you ask is a good one: if we were to withdraw our own beating people over the heads with clubs, would it necessarily follow that somebody else would take that role, or are there other alternatives? Well yeah, there are other alternatives. For example, the alternatives that are favored by the overwhelming majority of the population of the United States. I mentioned one piece of it: let the UN function. The UN isnt perfect, a lot of things wrong with it, just like the Universal Declaration of Human Rights isnt perfect... But one step would be to pay some respect to the \"decent opinion of mankind\", to quote the famous author, and let international institutions function so as to reduce the likelihood that anybody will use force..."]